Page 1, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘attribute Se maaxien— character ts Snowman dealing. B te She trails of this semxin—wohich:
Inglis efetve aman agency Vat mates Heradtus' ration of historical naratice
ps Hei fl read for is of topic gets, whi colin the kaace ofthe
Inu dec without nevesariyatoancing his waratine. Bu by hp scolhing
‘ooh fo of he nine books ofthe Histories, we cam assemble a largely continuous
aratce for this remarkable indvitua. This naratoepormits us to arb bt
‘rat and moral responsibilty for his actions. Arguaiy, is implid causation
domostrats tat Herodotus writings include uch hat amount fo prot-bigraply.

Proto-Biography

Herodotus has long been recognised as the first Western historian, but his
Histories are also read for his lively biographie anecdotes and character vignettes,
Although Herodotus writes history, many of his anecdotes do not extend his
historical narrative at all, and when not an outright digression often colour-in
something ofthe character and values of selected notable individuals. He selects
short, seemingly offtopic stores about the deeds, and conduct or misconduct of
his heroines and heroes that eloquently reveal much about their character, but
which seemingly without judgement often also provide what might become a
Aig moment for each individual.

Just as Homer and Hesiod stand at a crossroads where oral myth is set down
in writing, Herodotus stands at another crossroads a few hundred years later
where selected stories about great heroines, heroes, and scurrilous hounds are
taken out ofthe orl tradition and set down in writing. Albeit writing prose rather
than epic poetry, Herodotus regards himself as a contemporary Homer, but also
asa storyteller with the ability to assign credit and with it, moral esponsibility.”
“Tutor Marker and Graduate Student, Simon Fraser University, Canada

1. Re-dscovered in 1994 on the harbour wall of Haicamassus, the modern Aegean
resort of Bodrum in Turkey, the Sabusks lnsription, possibly early second century,
describes Herodotus as (Hgpdorov wv ncLoy é iropiacny Oppo Figoses) HEradaton
‘on pzon en trios Hondrondasen,“[Halcarnassus] engendered Herodotus, the prose
Homer of history” Signe Isage, “The Pride of Halkamassos," Zeist fr Popyralge,
123 (1995): 7.8, and, Jessica Priestley, Horaotus and Hellnic Culture (Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2014187


Page 1, Instance 3, Class: Text
Alexander of Macedon: An Early Biography

By Oliver R. Baker
(Clans that Herodtes reas nse 0s a protograph ae na ye witely act
‘To towne hs claim, awe sete one man, Alexander ao fs nsf and his
Aingdom caught nthe mie of the Grco-Peson Was ant whose attics are
counted in the Histories 18 & to 8 ear contemporary, Herts, 1 whom we
strut the avin character una destiny. 1 He truth of tis max hick
inp efetoe amon agency tat mas Heads’ eeton of isin nara
posable. He i ofl od fr hs of topic, which our the crater of the
Inia det witout necsaryaoocing his narrate. But by hp scocing
rough feof the nine Boks ofthe Fistor, we can ase argely continous
araie for his remark initua. This naatoe permits ws 10 atte Boe
ret ad moral resonsiity for his actos. Arguably, this inplist causation
lemons that erating nla mh hat amounts Wo protograph

Proto-Biography


Page 2, Instance 0, Class: Text
It's to Herodotus’ near-contemporary, Heraclitus, to whom we attribute the
maxim (foc dvOgdmes Saipuov) “ethos enthropsi daimén" translations for which
include the commonplace character is destiny? Neither éhos nor dann are easily
translated, and antirop is often ignored. But the maxim is senseless if any part of
it depends on powers outside of the individual. It isthe truth ofthis maxim—
hich presupposes effective human agency—that makes the creation of historical
narrative rather than divine myth or heroic epic, even possible.* Hesiod, Homer,
and to a certain extent Plutarch many centuries later, want to argue that itis
primarily ancestry or pedigree that will determine destiny. Undeniably in the
fifth century the well-born will often have greater autonomy, authority, and
agency.

CClaims that Herodotus reveals himself as a proto-biographer are not yet
widely accepted. In an article lamenting the gap between Herodotus and
Xenophon —Helene Homeyer makes the claim that Herodotus is also the father of
biography.* To advance this claim, I have selected one exceptional individual,
prince Alexander, later king Alexander I of Macedon. An individual, who
patticipated in the Helleno-Persian Wars, but one not found among those
notables recognised by Plutarch in his Parallel Lies. By hopscotching through five
‘of the nine books of Herodotus’ Historic, even ifthe entries fall short of a cradle
to grave depiction, we can assemble a reasonably continuous narrative for
Alexander, and thus through his exploits, gauge his character against the epic
heroines and heroes described by Homer! Emulating Tomas Higg, I let
Herodotus speak for himself through long in-text quotations from the Purvis
translation?

2. Andve Laks and Glenn W. Most, Early GrckPlilsoply, Part 2 (Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Pres, 2016), 194-195,

‘3. Miroslav Markovich, Hercltus Grek Tet (Mérida, Venezuela: Los Andes
University Pres, 1967), 502

44 Heraclitus of Epbesus, a near contemporary of Herodots, and one of the
Presocratc philosophers, was active inthe late siuh- and early fifh-centuris shortly
‘before Herodotus was bon. We have no evidence either way about Herodotus familiarity
With Heracius’ works, but thee notions of human causality or agency concur

5. Helene Homeyer writs, “So ist Herodot nicht aur der Vater der Geschichte
sondern 2ugleich auch der Schopter eines Ziveiges der biographischen Darstallungsweise
_geworden, die his 2u Plutarch wicht.” This canbe roughly tanslated as "So Herodotus is
not only the father of history, but also the creator of branch of biographical representation
Which extends up to Plutarch” Helene Homeyer, "Za den Aufangen der Geechschen
Bogeaphie” Philogus: Zeca front Literatur und be Reception 10, no. 11962}: 75,
SL

6-In this respect Alexander is no unique. By a similar hopscotching exercise we can
paint pictures ofa numberof individuals ignored by Plutarch: Artemisia, Gorgo, Ata,
‘Cleomenes, Mitiades the Eder, Miliades the Younger, and many others.

7- Tomas Higg comments, "The dea tha [someone] knows the texts suficently well,
in advance, or as them at hand to consult continuously isa pious illusion: i is better to


Page 3, Instance 1, Class: Text
I I

Herodotus gives us part of the life story of only one ruler of Macedon, but
leven these fascinating, chronologically isolated, stand-alone, episodes about
Alexander | are scattered over five books of his Histories Large in area and.
undeveloped, but neither wealthy nor populous, thisnorthem Aegean kingdom's
importance late inthe sixth and early inthe ith century is determined entirely by
its geography. Not landlocked, it has direct access to the sea through the
Thermaic Gulf, and hence the intense interest ofthe Persian rulers Darius and his
son Xerxes. This kingdom, which during the late sixth and the early fifth centuries
does not yet include the Chaledian Peninsula, lies north of Thessaly but east of
Thrace. Therefore it is situated along the strategic route that any invading land
armies with designs on mainland Greece—Attica and the Peloponnese—would
take when advancing west from either the Black Sea or from the south after
crossing the Straits from the Anatolian peninsula into Europe. But neither
Alexander nor his people are true Asian Near Easter lurburi ether: Fa from it
Whatever Alexander's tre ethnicity, there is considerably less doubt about his
people. At this time the Southern Grecks (Athens and Sparta) do not regard the
Macedon peoples as true Helles at all—-despite some shared religious belie, if
not similarities in culture—they are not Doric, Aeolian, or Ionic, let alone Attic
Greekcspeaking, Some scholars have suggested that their language was more an
uneducated backward Greek brogue. Given its military and economic
insignificance, Macedon’s ruler finds himself in a similarly perilous position to his
contemporary in the nearby Chersonese, Miltiades son of Kimon.” They are both
bring the texts physically into the discussion” Tomas Hig, The Art of Biggraphy


Page 3, Instance 2, Class: Text
bing the texts physically into the discussion” Tomas Hagg, The Art of Biography
(Cambwidge: Cambridge University Pres 2012), is. The block quotations from Herodots
aye from the Andrea L Purvis translation found in Rober B. Suasslee, The Lauloark
Heradatus (New York: Random House, 2007)

8. Referring to the works ofa contemporary of Herodotus, Anne Geddes comments,
tm a literate world, Biography attempts to provide a broad understanding of the
experince ofa lifetime leracy is a prerequisite for trae biography. In an oal society,
‘ography can hardly amount anything more than anecdote, which ad the potential to
reveal and inleepret character, but is Ukely 40 be trivial in content and designed for
entertainment or for pointing 2 moral Anne Geddes, “Jon of Chios and Politics” in The
‘orld offow (Leiden, The Netherlands; Boston, MA: Kennklie Brill NV, 2007), 114-115,

9. Barbarians (Bégfago« Barbar) is now a pejorative term, implying primitive,
savage, uncivilized, crude, and uncultured; but rather lke the Gaelic word sei of
‘assoc (originally meaning Saxon) it should really be translated as ous inthe mldly
senophoble sense of tone fs

10. During the lat sxth- and early fith-century Miliades, the scion ofa wealthy and
Inluential Athenian family, was appointed tyrant ofthe Thracian Chersonese—a region
better known now as the Gllipol Peninsula,


Page 4, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘compete in the Olympic Games—regards himself not only as a true Hellene, but as.
Hellenic royalty with an uncontested lineage stretching back in time beyond the
‘Trojan War! Once again, Herodotus shows his fascination with genealogy,
fascination which fits well with the Heracitean maxim: characteris destiny, and his
‘own Homeric echoes of heroic deeds. Thus Alexander's privileged high-birth
potentially gives him the opportunity to exercise independent agency, and these
are opportunities usually denied those of less than noble birth. For all thir Bleats
about democracy, the Hellews, and the Athenians in particular, are sfll a long,
vay away from creating a functioning meritocracy. Agency alone is never going
tobe enough; it must be coupled with autonomy and authority and inthe early
fifth-century all three are most readily secured through pedigree,
A Kingdom in Harm's Way.

At the end of the Persian’s stalemated Scythian expedition of 513 Darius the
Great withdraws west along the northern shores ofthe Black Sea slowly making
his way through Thrace to Sestos on the Chersonese peninsula where he ferries
his army back over to Anatolia, leaving behind one of his generals, Megabaz0s,
and eighty-thousand troops on the European side of the waterway (Hat. 4.143)"
‘This particular East-West confit, directed by Darius, is by no means over
Megabazos' orders are to subdue every city throughout Thrace (Ht. 5.1-53), and
tunder special orders given a year or so later he also is to capture and entirely
‘uproot the Paionian people moving them to new settlements in Anatolia (Hat
5.12-5115). After this conquest of Paionia, Megabazos sends seven of his most
distinguished men south as emissares to neighbouring Macedon demanding that
their king swear fealty to Darius (dt, 5.17.1), Herodotus’ first mention of
Alexanders father, King Amyntas, is when, perhaps as late asthe year 510, he is
hosting these Persian dignitaries at a state banquet held in the royal court at
Acgae (Ht. 5.181), Doubtless the nearby presence of eighty-thousand Persian

11. The (EMAavadien) Halland are the elected Elean officials fom the ruling
families of Hs charged with maintaining the standards and wadiions of the games,
induding determining who may and who may not compete. Given the religious
significance of the celebrations they take their duties very seriously and are virtually
incoruptibl

12 One suggestion is that Byzantium was in revoll against the Persian and Dass
stays on the European side rather than returning the way he came WW. How and J
Wells, A Commentary on Herodotus (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1912), 1.4.143.


Page 4, Instance 4, Class: Text
far too weak to resist Persia's territorial expansion ambitions and yet too far away.
to solicit meaningful support from either Athens or Sparta,

“Although Alexander's Macedon people are not recognised as Hellen, young,
Alexander—having successfully petitioned the Hellaaiika’ for permission to
compete in the Olympic Games— regards himself not only asa true Helene, but as
Hillenic royalty with an uncontested lineage stretching back in time beyond the
‘Trojan War! Once again, Herodotus shows his fascination with genealogy,
fascination which fits well with the Heracitean maxim: characteris destiny, and his
‘own Homeric echoes of heroic deeds. Thus Alexander's privileged high-birth
potentially gives him the opportunity to exercise independent agency, and these
are opportunities usually denied those of less than noble birth. For all their Beats
about democracy, the Hellews, and the Athenians in particular, are sfll a long,
vay away from creating a functioning meritocracy. Agency alone is never going
tobe enough; it must be coupled with autonomy and authority —and in the early
fifth-century all three are most readily secured through pedigree,


Page 5, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The Seeds of Pan-Hellenism

‘Whether events atthe state banquet unfold exactly as Herodotus recounts is
immaterial. And regardless of any bias stemming from his Macedonian sources,
he is creating a discourse distinguishing Hellenic freedom from Persian
despotism.” Herodotus next spins a lurid tale of a clash of courtly customs and
expectations that ends in the murder and complete disappearance of the seven
Persian emissaries along with all trace oftheir attendants, servants, baggage, and
carriages (Hdt. 5182-5211) The Persians, who have been drinking, complain to
their host that its their custom to bring their concubines and wives to sit beside
their guests at a feast. Herodotus is continuing his contrast or catalogue of
differences. Non-Greeks, or barbarians are those “who lacked Greek virtues and
exhibit all non-Greek vices, such as luxury, effeminacy, despotism, and lack of
self-control.” King Amyntas reluctantly brings in the women as demanded, but
the Persians insist that they sit beside not opposite them and immediately
‘commence taking liberties, Clearly Persian and Macedonian customs and culture
are as diverse as they are irreconcilable?" and although the Greeks do not yet
regard Macedonians as Hellenes nor are they Barbarians. Young Alexander,

13, Tam indebted to another for the phrase; “Oriental despotism” which the
originator admits san oversimplifcation ofthe polarity and conict Between Greece and
what he calls the Near East. Kostas Viassopoulos, Gres and Barbarians (Cambridge
Cambridge University Press, 2013) 321,

14. He lists what he calls all non-Greek vies, but I would hesitate ever to put any
degree of ethical ownership on a vice Vlassopoulos, Gress and Bartrius, 8. They are
Universal. Its during the Ite archaic and early asscal period thatthe Hellenes are
Imenting Hesdoes and. at the same time inventing natthemsdoes, oF the barbarian
Ideological this leads othe simple adage that itis always a good thing tobe a Hellene—
tnd you might wish to thank the gods for that—and a very bad thing to be a Barbarian —
and you might really wish to thank the god for that, too.

15, Ross Seale, "Alexander in the Histor of Herodotus,” Hermes 117 (1985): 117,

16, Baybarian is now a pejorative term, but the tem hntorophona’ is used by Homer
‘when describing the Trojans’ Carian ais from the western coast of Anatoli:

‘Nass ld the Carians wild with barbarous tongues

men who held Miletus, Pihies ridges thick with timber,


Page 5, Instance 2, Class: Text
troops heavily influences King Amyntas’ unhappy and humiliating but
‘unhestating acquiescence—he accepts the ony alternative to certain annihilation,
His large, not quite impoverished, but minor kingdom is far too weak to
effectively resist Persian aggression or territorial expansion, let alone pose a
military threat to anyone. And so Amyntas is abe to retain a measure of authority
and autonomy to avoid his kingdom becoming just part of another large Persian
satrapy.


Page 6, Instance 0, Class: Text
who is outraged at this lewd, ungracious behaviour, asks his father to retire, and
suggests that if the Persian guests insist that itis thei right to casually fornicate
with these young women—the wives and daughters of their hosts—the women
should at least be permitted to bathe frst.” Alexander's outrage that the Persians
should even ask is only exceeded by the anguish of witnessing his father's
powerlessness and humiliating acquiescence in reducing Macedon’s younger
attractive female courtiers to litle better than pura (rogvai) —noblewomen
Gragooned as substitutes for Persian army camp followers. Here Herodotus
reveals one of the more insidious and invidious aspects of foreign dominance—
when you are deprived ofthe freedom to boldly act on, or perhaps more strictly
to exercise, the courage of your convictions, whether these be right or wrong, you
are effectively reduced toa slave, Slaves either have no choice at all, or are at best
obliged to select what they perceive as the least bad from among a number of
evils And this s what the Persian emissaries are doing, while rubbing it in with
pleasure,

[Not yet enthroned and likely still a teenager well short of his majority, this
incident becomes Alexander's one defining moment. He might even have vowed
never to be forced into a similar powerless position himself, where his choices are
limited to either bad or worse. He immediately dresses an equal number of
lightly armed, smooth-skinned, young men in women's dlothing and brings them.
bback into the banqueting room, where seated beside their amorous drunken
_guests—and with shades of book 2 of the Odyssey —they put the guests to death
for their grotesque violation of the most paramount of Greek virtues—xenia. Very
much unlike late sixth- and early fith-century Athens where prostitution was
rampant, one might here interject the notion that in Macedon, as in Sparta—
although for very different reasons—casual heterosewual intercourse was simply


Page 6, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘Macande’scens an Mount Mya saggy pes in 29738

Some slrs ag that Homer uses he frm spstealy forthe Casas not
econ hy dot ak Crk bu enue thy pe anal nelle ie
Gla. David Due High Lindsay and Sanh Potbcary (Es), Stas Cultura
cp ng of Rleourgi(atbdge: Cage Univer Pras 205) 47
48. However, acrdng to Heodot the Egyptians allay who not speak te
Langage "ibaa dt 24585). The Canton fm on of wl iy ad
hash an sd

17 The ai wi ote hat any aston fsa ver etal onc
Amypin cere the place womenfl to et is Peran gs ave Dr wy wih
thm Lik Aland a seer motes in pay acd wl ot loins ae
tossep

1H Pat ofthe station for a monacha the strong wil always poi the
weakling Ane fall county-women spac erable wy


Page 7, Instance 0, Class: Text
19, Fith-contury Athenian society is unashamedly patriarchal with an already well
developed, state sponsored, and thriving sex trade of varying degrees of salubrty
employing countless slaves and non-citizens

20, The Persians display theie most boorish and toxic behaviour. Wealthy and
Influential Athenian men may hold drinking parties, sys, but the only women present
fre hela! and perhaps a beter cass of yoru provided by the host and where non
reproductive, recreational intercourse is de rigueur. Athenian men will ot bring thei
gyi, tate their pila

21. See 1 Timothy 610 although the argument from Seiptue is not the economic
fone. See aso Sarah Pomeroy, Spurn Women (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2002), 98
‘The atcha and classical Spartan economy was agrarian and tode facilitated by barter
bout thee will always be a linit to the number of laying hens or sacks of barley the
residents and keepers of such houses of pleasure can acept in exchange for services
rendered. Camal aoess to these foreign women likely also requited access to foreign

22. A numberof scholars have dismissed this story a apccryphal perhaps itis even
ro-Macedon propaganda fabricated by Herodotus. Joep Roisman and lan Worthington,
A Companion fo Anciont Macedonia (Chichester: Wiley-Blackwell, 2010) 136. But ne ofthe
flaws in thee logic is that because Herodotus o his sources, are unable to provide the
necessary synchroniciies, not only are we unsure of when this medizing fist occurred —
fand was it by Amyntas or Alexander—we do not know the ages of either Alexander of
Gygaia. There is no evidence that Gygaia is considerably younger than her brother,
Alexander and so pushing her maztageto Boubares to eaay inthe ifth-century when she
‘ill be in her thirties creates other credibility challenges. The point ofthe digression i 1
reveal Herodotus’ assessment of Alexander's sympathies, not the whereabouts of the
Persian emissrie’ bones


Page 7, Instance 2, Class: Text
not part of their culture.” Herodotus is showing that it isthe barbarians who can
donno better than turn a state banquet into an excuse for drunken debauchery. If
:money is the root ofall evil, then Spartan xenophobia coupled their reluctance to
_monetise gold and silver bullion explains why prostitution did not flourish there
‘until the Hellenic era

Proving once again that nothing beats plausible deniabilty, coupled withthe
offer of a princess-bride and palm cil, Persian inquiries about their vanished
emissaries come to nothing. Herodotus credits the young Alexander, rather than
the king, with arranging the marriage of his sister Gygaia to Boubares,
‘Megabazos’ son and the Persian general responsible for the —quickly dropped —
inquiry (Lat, 5222). Whether the tale is true or not is immaterial; Herodotus is
carefully establishing that despite all outward appearances Macedon is only.
paying forced lip-service to Darius and that the future Macedon king is anxious
tobe fre ofthe Persian yoke. Herodotus is also highlighting significant cultural
dlifferences—Hellenes do not get paralytically drunk and Hellenes do not expect


Page 8, Instance 0, Class: Text
to be invited to fornicate in public with their host's servants, let alone seek.
pleasure with their host's wives and daughters.

Ina long historical digression Herodotus describes how in the mid-seventh
century three brothers: Gayannes, Aeropos, and Perdiceas flee from Argos into
exile in Mlyria and then move eastward into northem Macedon and after
ddeposing the local ruler eventually conquer the whole region (Ldt. §.137-8.138),
Herodotus gives the genealogy of Alexander [stretching back six generations,

Ait was from tis Perdiccas that Alexander was descended or Alexander was the

son of Amynias, who was the son of Aleotes, whose father was Aeropos son of

Philippes, the son of Argaios, who was the son of that Perdiccas who acquied the

rue ofthis and (dt 8.139,

Herodotus gives no source for this king list, but it is dearly 2 proud
Macedonian tradition as likely as not carved in stone. Also worth mention is
that Macedon is a vast region, and the royal palaces at Aigai (Aegoe) in the south
are nota city-state but more a ceremonial meeting place. But what is critical here
is that Alexander believes that it was important for his ruling family, the Argeads
(Agyedideu), if not his subjects, to be accepted as Helles with Hellenic values and
rot be dismissed as Barbarians Further reinforcing Alexander's claim of

23. Greek culture should be emulated, and a culture that eschews xen is boowish
‘beyond decadence. Herodotus does nt say it divctly, but alcory or wild boar hunting is
4 mote appropriate recreational pursuit for visting diplomats than catering to thei
preference fr drunken fornication. Again, only saves please thers by acting agains their

24, The Argead dynasty spans five centuries from 808 to 305 and includes twenty
seven monarchs-one of whom ruled forall of four days. Alexandr [is the tenth inthis
line, whereas Alexander I, etter known as Alexander the Great, isthe twenty-fith, Why
Herodotus should defer revealing details of Aleander’s genealogy until book 8, rather
than intoduceit early in book or 5, is puzzling 35 suggested by several scholars,
Herodotus never got around to final revisions of his Histrss—a draft extending over as
‘many as fity book rols—ikely he only set down this version of the Macedonian king list
‘when a copy from what he reganded a a elable source fst came into his hands. Stewart
Flory, The Archaic Smile of Herodotus (Detroit: Wayne State University Press 1987) 15;and,
Roisman and Worthington, A Companion Ancient Macon 81

25, Geographic and ethnic Boundaries in this region have changed numerous times
‘over the last wo and one-half millenia and it would be nave fot absurd to ignore how
these changes have impacted Greek and SlaveBalkan cultural identity. The modem
Balkan Republic of North Macedonia is landlocked and roughly corresponds to the
ancient kingdom of Paeonia. Consequently, the existence of a Macedonian ethnicity itil
biter contested, especially aftr the break-up of the former Yugoslavia in 199192. When
Josip Broz Tito, who had held the country together since the end of WWIL, died in 1980 the
‘county slowly morphed back into the eight-former nineteenthcentury constituent Slavic
states Alexander I's Macedon Kingdom, which is not landlocked, has been part of


Page 9, Instance 0, Class: Text
Hillenic (Temenid) heritage, Herodotus notes that he petitioned for and was
permitted to compete in the Olympic Games

Furthermore even those who preside ove the Olympic games ofthe Hellen have

‘come to recognise thal this the case. [2] For when Alexander chose to compete in

the games and entered thelss to do so, his Greek competitors tied to exclude him,

by claiming thatthe contest was for Grock contestants only and barbarians wore not
allowed to paticipate” But when Alexander proved that he was of Argive ances,

‘he was judged tobe a Hellen, and proceeded to compete in the fotrae, in which he

‘wasted foe st place Hat 5221-2,

Herodotus gives us his own definition of what it means, tobe a Hellne.

And second it would not be fiting forthe Athenians to prove tater to the Greek:

people with whom we are united in sharing the same Kinship and language, with

‘whom we have established shrines and conduct sacrifices tothe gods together, and

‘with whom we also share the same way of le (Hat 81442)

In another digression Herodotus mentions the silver mine located between
Lake Prasias and Mount Dysoron from which Alexander I will later derive an
income ofa talent of slver—6,000 to 8,000 drachmas—per day (Halt. 5.17.2)" The
kingdom's other source of revenue is forestry and the export of timber and pitch
used in shipbuilding throughout the eastem Mediterranean, No- matter,
‘Herodotus’ narrative establishes that thirty years before the second Greco-Persian
‘mainland Greece for millennia. Accordingly Ihave referred to Alexander's homeland as
Macedon. Alexander's subjects are descrited as Macedonians if only to avoid the
grammatically clumsy Macedon peoples or peoples of Macedon,

26. Temenos (Teves) isa great-great grandson of Heracles who helps lead the th
and final attack on Myeenae in the Peloponnese where be becomes king of Argos. He is
the father of Karanas(Kagavos) who in some traditions isthe fist king of Macedon and
the founder ofthe Temenid or Argeod dynasty. In other earir waditons, including the
‘one adopted by Herodotus, Perdikkas, Temenos’ great grandson, founds the dynasty.

27. Alexander, a the king of Macedon oe perhaps stil just a prine of Macedon, most
likely makes an honoured guest appearance atthe seventy-first Olympiad in 496, of
possibly atthe games held in 500050, and competes in the furlong (stadia) ace. Neither
Herodotus nor any other contemporary sources indicate which games nor how old he
was, but we can surmise—if there is any’ rth othe earlier hospitality story that be was
then aged about thet and had only cenly assumed the throne.

28. Unlike the Seythian people who are nomadic, the agricultural community in
“Macedon practice tanshumance—they keep thee livestock grazing in sheltered lowland.
areas during the winter, but move them to upland areas during the spring and summer
Efficient land use results, as this livestock migration also lets the Macedon farmers grow
aops for winter fed in thei lowland fields. However i the event of invasion this
lwanshumance makes t particularly dificult to quickly muster defensive troops no matter
‘whether infantry o cavalry.


Page 9, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘mainland Greece for millennia. Accordingly Ihave referred to Alexander's homeland as
Macedon. Alexander's subjects are descrited as Macedonians if only to avoid the
grammatically clumsy Macedon peoples or peoples of Macedon,

26. Temenos (Teves) isa great-great grandson of Heracles who helps lead the th
and final attack on Myeenae in the Peloponnese where be becomes king of Argos. He is
the father of Karanas(Kagavos) who in some traditions isthe fist king of Macedon and
the founder ofthe Temenid or Argeod dynasty. In other earir waditons, including the
‘one adopted by Herodotus, Perdikkas, Temenos’ great grandson, founds the dynasty.

27. Alexander, a the king of Macedon oe perhaps stil just a prine of Macedon, most
likely makes an honoured guest appearance atthe seventy-first Olympiad in 496, of
possibly atthe games held in 500050, and competes in the furlong (stadia) ace. Neither
Herodotus nor any other contemporary sources indicate which games nor how old he
was, but we can surmise—if there is any’ rth othe earlier hospitality story that be was
then aged about thet and had only cenly assumed the throne.

28. Unlike the Seythian people who are nomadic, the agricultural community in
“Macedon practice tanshumance—they keep thee livestock grazing in sheltered lowland.
areas during the winter, but move them to upland areas during the spring and summer
Efficient land use results, as this livestock migration also lets the Macedon farmers grow
aops for winter fed in thei lowland fields. However i the event of invasion this
lwanshumance makes t particularly dificult to quickly muster defensive troops no matter
‘whether infantry o cavalry.


Page 10, Instance 0, Class: Text
a a ee SS - e
independence and prosperity of Macedon is also dependent on the continued
independence of the city-states within mainland Greece.

First Greco-Persian War

[Herodotus makes no further reference to Alexander until the summer of $80,
We know that Alexander succeeds to his father’s throne in 498 and from
Herodotus’ silence we may surmise that Macedon plays no ole in the Ionian
revolt and does not hinder Mardonios’ forces during what turned out to be a
disastrous foray into Thrace and Macedon in 493-492 when Darius socks
retribution for Athenian and Eritrean participation in the Ionian raid on Sardis in
498 (Ht. 648). It is when taking his flet from the Strymonic Gulf around the
CChaleidian Peninsula that Mardonios loses some three-hundred ships from his
fleet and some twenty-thousand soldiers before reaching Macedon territory west
ff the peninsula (Hl. 6.44.23). With these crippling losses punitive raids on
Athens and Eretria, let alone permanent subjugation, are no longer feasible and
Mardonios ignominiously withdraws to Asia (Hel. 645) Since Mardonios fails $0
miserably, next year in 491, Darius appoints two other generals, Datis and
Artaphrenes with instructions to enslave both Athens and Eretria (Ht. 694.20),
Partly because of the unpredictable storms in the northem Aegean and a desire to
subjugate a numberof city-states on islands inthe Aegean Sea the nev strategy is
‘one of which can best be described of island -hopping over the Cyclades Islands

‘Alexander will doubtless have viewed this new strategy with a mixture of
relief and apprehension—rlief that another land army would not be crossing,
‘over from the Hellespont to Thrace—and apprehension that a large amphibious
force routed safely through the Cyclades might successfully invade Attica and
continue on through tothe Peloponnese with some city-states medizing without a
fight. As things turn out Eretria is betrayed from within and razed tothe ground,
bbut the Athenians, with Miltiades as commanding general and without Spartan
assistance, defeats Datis at Marathon in the summer of 490. Furthermore, the
promised betrayal from within Athens never materialises—the Persian invasion
fleot gets as far as anchoring off Phaleron only to see the victors at Marathon
waiting for them. They never land and return to Susa with only the conquest ofa
few small islands in the Aegean Sea, the sack of Fretra, and some hapless
Eritrean prisoners to show for their efforts.


Page 11, Instance 0, Class: Text
Second Greco-Persian War

Ik will be a decade before the Persians try again. In the meantime Darius is
succeeded by his son, Xerxes. In the aftermath of Marathon, leaders in mainland
Greece argue over whether the Persian menace is over and whether a victory
such as Marathon could ever be repeated. When Athens starts to build a
significant navy—doublless with timber and pitch purchased from Macedon —
‘Alexander would be fully aware that the Greco-Persian conflict is fr from over.
Herodotus does not say when Alexander is recognised by Athens as a prosenos
and euergetes, it might well have been before his suecession tothe throne. What is
important is that Alexander has eared and subsequently been awarded these
significant honours on proven merit and that the Persian commanders know so.
But we can surmise that just as Alexander knows something of what is
happening in Athens and in Sparta, he will also be fully aware of what i aot in
Susa.®

Following the sack of Sardis in 498, Darius resolves to subjugate all of Hellas
once and forall (Hdt 5105.1). Later, goaded by his mother, Atoss, for yet another
invasion of the Greek mainland Darius dies in 484 in the midst of his preparations
(Hat. 74), His heir, Xerxes, inerits these preparations and one of his generals,
Mardonios, is anxious to argue for revenge and perhaps covets the appointment
as the satrap ofall Hellas himself (Hel. 7.6.2) ts in 484 that Xerxes assembles
the Persian nobility to discuss his plan forthe invasion of Hellas and tells them
(Hat.78),

"intend to bridge the Hellespont and lead my’ army through Europe to Hella, so
that we can punish the Athenians forall that they did to the Persians and to my
father. [2] Now you saw how even Darius had his mind set on marching against
these men, but that he died and did not have the opportunity to exact vengeance
‘upon them. I, however, on his behalf and that of the rest ofthe Persians, shall not
sive up until Feonquer Athens and set it on fire, since it they who began the
‘offenses against me and my father” (Hl. 7 1.2).

‘The first offence, in Xerwes’ mind, isthe raid on Saris, but he also regards
the defeat at Marathon as an “offence” to be avenged (Ht. 7.88 3). And in due
course, that is exactly what Xerxes does. Once the Athenians and Spartans know
that Xerxes has crossed the Hellespont into Thrace and is moving toward
“Macedon and Thessaly they decide to act Ht. 7.172). In response to a Thessalian

29, Aprons sa ctizen ofa tate (inthis case Macedon) appointed by another state
(oamely Athens) to host its ambassadors and to represent and protect its interests there
(Athens? interests in Macedon). Another term applicable to Alexander Is euygete: a
benefactor and therefore a ile of honour in ancient Greece granted to those notables who
hhave done the stale some service. Both titles have a hereditary element. Hat. 81493);
Roisman and Worthington, ML)


Page 12, Instance 0, Class: Text
request, they send an army by sea to Halos in Achaea where they disembark and
march toward Tempe and the pass between Mount Olympus and Mount Ossa
which leads from Macedon into Thessaly. But this very bold strategic move—
bottling up the huge Persian force in Macedon—is very poorly planned and
based on faulty, or grossly misleading local knowledge. Herodotus writes that in
the early summer of 480, itis messengers from Alexander who point out their
precarious position.”

‘They remained there fr only a few days, however, for messengers soon asved fom

the Macedonian Alevander son of Amynlas, ting them of the number of Woops

and ships the enemy had and advising them to depart, est by remaining atthe pass,

‘hey would be trampled under bythe invading army. The Hellees thought that this

was sound advice and, recognizing that the Macedonian was thus displaying his

goodwill toward them, they followed it (Hd. 7.1733),

Herodotus’ story here shows the fragility of any slowly emergent early fith-
century Pan-Hellenism. Itis the Thessalians, who do not want to be overrun by
Xerse¥ hordes, who persuade the Spartan and Athenian commanders, who were
then assembled near Corinth, to travel north to help them defend the pass at
Mount Olympus (Lt. 7.1722). The Thessalians must have known that there was
more than one mountain pass that an army advancing south from Macedon into
Thessaly might take, and that all of the passes would have to be defended. A
naval force to prevent the defenders being by-passed and attacked from behind is
also necessary.

‘The existence of such an altemative route soon becomes evident. Herodotus!
readers will be thinking of the similar situation soon to be revealed at
Thermopylae. Pethaps also Alexander does not want the Persians fighting against
the Greeks within his kingdom, where Xerses is certain to demand that
Macedonian levees would be active participants. A minor military point, but the
best way to defend a pass is at the entrance where you have a narrow front and
with small numbers can prevent your enemy even entering it. To do this
Buainetos son of Karenos and Themistocles would have to enter Macedon
territory leaving Alexander in an invidious position regarding Xerxes’ advance.

But in ay opinion, what relly convinced them to leave was fear, Which arose when

‘hey leamed that another pass into Thessaly led from nother Macedon through

Perribia, by the city of Gann, which was the pas thatthe army’ of Xerces actually


Page 13, Instance 1, Class: Text
did take. So the Hellenes retumed to their ships and sailed back to the isthmus"

(71724.

Certainly this allied retreat from Thessaly, agreed by the two commanders
Euainetos son of Karenos from Sparta and Themistocles son of Neokles from
‘Athens, leaves their former allies the Thessalians little choice but to submit to
Xenes and grant him unimpeded passage south toward Attica and the
Peloponnese.

‘Thermopylae and After

‘This invasion of Europe occurs during the summer of 480. Herodotus may.
have his facts right and yet be in error over the motivation. Herodotus does not
say whether Macedonian forces commanded by Alexander—probably cavalry —
were present at the battle of Thermopylae in August or September of 480.
ovvever, just prior to that battle when the Persian forces assemble near Cape
Sepias, Herodotus lists the men inthe forces recruited from Europe.

Land forces were proved by the Tracans,Paloians, Fidians Botiaian, the nation

of Chaldicians, Brygol, Pierians, Macedonians, Peraibians, Ainanes, Dolopians,

Magpesians, Achacans, and all who inhabited the coastal region of Thrace (Hat

71852),

In the aftermath of the Spartan defeat at Thermopylae, the Persians, gleefully
guided by the Thessalians, overrun the entie country of Phocis freely burning,
pillaging, and raping their way south (LHdt, 832-833). However, the entire
population of Boootia, who pragmatically medize ater the battle of Thermopylae,
are protected by Macedonian troops from the threat of unsanctioned Persian
ravages. Herodotus writes,

After leaving Parapotamioi the barbarians came to Panopereos, and there Xerses|

‘orld out his army and divided it in two, The lggest and strongest part continued

‘with Xerxes to invade Bosotia through the lerstory of Orchomenus and mach

towatd Athens The entre population of Bosoia were medizing and tei tes were

being protected by some Macedonians who had been appointed and sent to them by

[Alesandtos. The purpose behind this move was to make cleat to Xernes thatthe

‘ocotians were taking the side ofthe Medes (Hal, $3),

1. Herodotus doesnot say wich isthmus, but the Isthmus of Corinth is the most
tkely posit forthe various contingents ofthe combined feet and agmy to reassemble


Page 14, Instance 0, Class: Text
Perhaps this is an instance of Alexander I eaming the tile euergets? He
sould not have forgotten the Persian's behaviour toward women at his father’s
palace thirty years earlier and now he appears to be challenging Xerxes to insist
that his own troops and allied levees act honourably. The simple presence of a
handful of Macedonian cavalrymen in each Bocotian settlement would deter
undisciplined marauders from preying on the defenceless civilian population no
matter whichever part of Xerxes’ empire—Asia or Europe—they came from,
‘Clearly the Macedonians were not involved in the illomened Persian raid on
Delphi, a grotesque act of impiety that would appall any ruler daiming Hellenic
values

Whether Macedonian troops take part on the sack of Athens, Herodotus
does not say, nor do we know whether Macedonian troops assemble at Phaleron,
Perhaps they were too busy with their garrison duties in Bosotia and only rejoin
Mardonios when he withdraws to Thessaly after the naval disaster at Salamis?
Herodotus makes no further mention of Alexander until the winter of 480/479
when the Persian general Mardonios withdraws his troops from Altica and is
‘encamped in Thessaly. Here, taking advantage of Alexander's status as both
prosenos and euergetes, Mardonios seeks to break up the Hellenic Alliance with a
deal. We must not forget that in whatever capacity she or he may act
ambassadors—are essentially very noble but obedient messengers.

‘After Mardonis had read the oracles, he sent Alevander of Macedon, the son of

“Amyalas, as a messenger to Athens, because the Persians were related 19 Aleander|

by martage; Gygaia, who was the daughter of Amyntas and Alexander's sister, was

the wife of Boubares of Persia. She had given birth to Amyntas of Asia, who bore
the name of his matemal grandfather and to who the King had given the large

Pheygian city of Alabanda from which to draw revenues. Moreover, since Mardonios

hha heard that Alexander was aproenos and a benefactor of Athens, 2 he thought

that by this move he could best succed in winning over the Athenians to his side

Because he had learned that they were a populous and warlike people, and he knew

thatthe disaster that had befallen the Persian at sea had been accomplished mainly

by the Athenians, [3] he fully anticipated that of they were on his side, he would
easily goin contol over the sea which was certainly a corect assumption (Ht

8136.19,

Believing an oracle that suggests that the Persians should ally with the
Athenians, Mardonios decides to send Alexander to Athens to present an offer
that purports to come from Xerxes (Hdl, §:1363).* Herodotus reports Alexander's
speech tothe assembled Athenians, an assembly which includes some messengers
from Sparta, as follows:

32. Mardonios needs the Athenian navy (ships and crews), but he may be unaware
that Themistoces has threatened to relocate the entie Athenian population to Sins in
aly. This would deny ether side his wiemes and woop tansports (Hat. 8622)


Page 15, Instance 0, Class: Text
Men of Athens, Mardonios has this to tll you:‘A message has arsved fom the King

[eres saying will forget all the wrongs done to meby the Athenians [2] s0 now,

Mardonios, you must do as I say. Fst give them back their land, and let them have

another land of thie choice in addition, which they may govern independently Ht

1401)

Alexander also offers his own addendum to the Xerxes/Mardonios message:

‘That Athenians, is what Mardonios instructed me to tell you. As for myself, shall

say nothing of my own goodwill toward you (since now would not be the fist ime

{you could recognize tha), but! do entreal you to follow the advie of Mardonios. [2]

For can see that you wil not be able to wage war against Xerues forever —if Thad

‘observed that you were capable of doing so, I would never have come to you with

this advice. The faci, dhe King’s power is supeehuman, and his reach extends far

and wide [3] And so if you do not immediately come to an agreement with the

Persians while they are offering you such generous conditions, thn I fear fr you

indeed, cause you alone ofall the allies dwell along the most beaten tack of this

‘war and constantly suffer devastation, and the land you posses is often chosen 35

the disputed ground on which bates are waged. [8] So, then, do heed my adviee,

sine you have such a precious opportunity, insofar asthe great King wishes 10

‘become your friend and to forgive you alone of all the Hellenes forthe wrongs done

tohim dt 8.1408 1-9,

‘The astute listener will note that itis Alexander's Macedon that lies along the
_most beaten track of this war. But, no matter, the Spartan response is immediate,
selE-erving, and predictable and inchudes an ai hominem attack on Alexander.

Do not let Aleandeos of Macedon win you over with his polished version of

Mardosios’ message [5] For he wally must ac this ways e is afterall. a tyrant who

Is assisting another tyrant. But if you have any sense tal, you must not fllow the

advice of barbarians, knowing as you do that they are nether trustworthy noe

tral (Hat 814245).

Strictly, Alexander is not a tyrant, but he has claimed Temeniel ancestry —
which means Argos—and for any Spartan that would be enough to put him
beyond the pale. Herodotus reports both the Athenian response fist to Alexander
and then their response tothe Spartans

Report bock lo Mardonios thatthe Athenians say: As fangs the sun continues on

the same course ast now travels, we shall never ome to an agreement with Xerxes

33. Arguably the Spartans are disingenuous. Long ago they had threatened Cyrus the
(Great, but more recently they had abused Persian heralds (diplomats) adding injury 10
Insult. W. W. How and J. Wells, A Commentary ou Herodotus (Oxford: Clarendon Press,
1912),281022


Page 16, Instance 1, Class: Text
he bumed thelr homes and images) we call advance agsinst him and defer

ourselves’ (Hdt 81452),

‘The Athenian response to the Spartan messengers is more measured, but
includes a plea that the Spartans do not simply defend themselves and other cites
‘of the Peloponnese behind the fortifications they have constructed across the
isthmus at Corinth (Hdt. 814415),

Do send out an army as quickly as possible, [5] for itis our conjecture that before

Jong indeed as soon as the barbarian hears thal we have refused to do a he asked,

the willbe here invading our land again and so now beloee he reaches Attica, the

time for you to hasten to battle in Hosoia (4d, 8.14.45).

[As expected, after Alexander relays the Athenian response to the Xerxes!
Mardonios offer, the Persian armies again prepare to move south toward Astica
Having occupied a deserted Athens fora second time (Hat. 93), Mardonios tries
again to separate the Athenians from their Spartan allies by repeating the earlier
offer conveyed by Alexander and soundly rejected (Ht. 94.1),

Defeat at Plataea

‘This diplomatic ploy also fails, and when Mardonios learns thatthe Spartans
tunder Pausanias are marching out of Sparta he sacks Athens for a second time
and destroys everything in his path as he withdraws north from Attica into
Bovotia, Its here just south of Thebes along the Asopos River that Mardonios
cides is the right terrain where his can use his cavalry to advantage shen
‘engaging the Hellenic Alliance in a decisive battle (Ha, 9.133). From Herodotus
tve leam that “Mardonios also positioned the Macedonians and the inhabitants of
the region surrounding Thessaly so that they faced the Athenians” Ht. 931.5).

‘The two armies face each other for ten days, neither attacking the other
‘because the omens each receives after offering sacrifice are always unfavourable
(Hat 9382), One of Mardonios’ advisers, Artabazos, even suggests that the
Persians should abandon their present positions and retreat behind the walls of
‘Thebes—where their cavalry would be useless—but to use the treasure stored
there to bribe leaders of the Alliance into accepting Persian sovereignty on very
favourable terms (Hd. 9412). Mardonios, who craves the glory of a military
victory, rejects this advice and gives the signal for the bate to be joined on the
following day (Hdt. 942.4). It is at this critical moment that Alexander, whose
forces are positioned directly opposite the Athenians, decides to secretly help the
Alliance as much as he can. Herodotus writes of what takes place at one outpost
‘of the Greek camp:


Page 16, Instance 3, Class: Text
“Trusting in the gods and heroes as our ales for whom he showed no respect when
be burned their homes and images) we shall advance against him and defend
ourselves’ (Hdt 81452),

‘The Athenian response to the Spartan messengers is more measured, but
includes a plea that the Spartans do not simply defend themselves and other cites
‘of the Peloponnese behind the fortifications they have constructed across the
isthmus at Corinth (Hdt. 814415),

Do send out an army as quickly as possible, [5] for itis our conjecture that before

Jong indeed as soon as the barbarian hears thal we have refused to do a he asked,

the willbe here invading our land again and so now beloee he reaches Attica, the

time for you to hasten to battle in Hosoia (4d, 8.14.45).

[As expected, after Alexander relays the Athenian response to the Xerxes!
Mardonios offer, the Persian armies again prepare to move south toward Astica
Having occupied a deserted Athens fora second time (Hat. 93), Mardonios tries
again to separate the Athenians from their Spartan allies by repeating the earlier
offer conveyed by Alexander and soundly rejected (Ht. 94.1),


Page 16, Instance 5, Class: Text
Defeat at Plataea

‘This diplomatic ploy also fails, and when Mardonios learns thatthe Spartans
tunder Pausanias are marching out of Sparta he sacks Athens for a second time
and destroys everything in his path as he withdraws north from Attica into
Bovotia, Its here just south of Thebes along the Asopos River that Mardonios
decides isthe right terrain where his can use his cavalry to advantage when
‘engaging the Hellenic Alliance in a decisive battle (Ha, 9.133). From Herodotus
tve leam that “Mardonios also positioned the Macedonians and the inhabitants of
the region surrounding Thessaly so that they faced the Athenians” (Hd. 931.5).

‘The two armies face each other for ten days, neither attacking the other
‘because the omens each receives after offering sacrifice are always unfavourable
(Hat 9382), One of Mardonios’ advisers, Artabazos, even suggests that the
Persians should abandon their present positions and retreat behind the walls of
‘Thebes—where their cavalry would be useless—but to use the treasure stored
there to bribe leaders of the Alliance into accepting Persian sovereignty on very
favourable terms (Hd. 9412). Mardonios, who craves the glory of a military
victory, rejects this advice and gives the signal for the bate to be joined on the
following day (Hdt. 942.4). It is at this critical moment that Alexander, whose
forces are positioned directly opposite the Athenians, decides to secretly help the
Alliance as much as he can. Herodotus writes of what takes place at one outpost
‘of the Greek camp:


Page 17, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘The night was well advanced; all was quiet throughout the camp, and most of the

men were asleep when Alexander son of Amynlastode up on horseback toa guard

Post ofthe Athenians, socking to speak to their genera [2] While mest ofthe guards

remained at their posts, some ran to their generals and when they found them they

told them that someone on hoeseback had areved fom the camp of the Medes, and
that he would say nothing moze than he wished to speak to some of their generals,

‘whom he named (Hat 9441-2.

“Although Herodotus does not speculate, Alexander may not have let the
Persian lines without the acquiescence of the Persian generals what the Persians
might have expected him to say is another matter." Herodotus has already
indicated that there were levees from Macedon under Alexander's command in
Mardonios’ army, but Alexander is not visiting the Hellenes' camp to lend direct,
military assistance, although his secret forewaming reveals which side he is really

‘Alexander said to them, "Men of Athens, entrust you with what Iam about to say

charging you to keep it an absolute secret and to tell no one but Pausanias lst you

‘utterly destroy me. You must know that I would not he speaking to you iT didnot

care greatly about all of Hellas, [2] for I myself am a Hellen of ancient lineage and

‘would not wish to see Hellas exchange its freedom for slavery. And so Iam bere to

tell you that Mardonios and his army are unable to obtain frm thie sarfces. The

fomens they desir. Otherwise you would have fought a long, time ago. Now,
however, Mardonios has resolved to dismiss the oracles and to engage in bate

‘ginning atthe break of day; my guess is that hes very worried that mone men will,

‘come bere to join you. So you should prepare you selves fr this it tus out hat

Mardosios delays the encounter and does nothing, you should remain and persevere,

for they have enough food lt for cay a few days. 3] And if this war ends in your

favor, then you must remember me and my quest fr liberation, fri on my ovr

inative that I have performed this dangerous feat asa service to the Hellenes; 1

‘wish to reveal the intent of Mardonios to you so thatthe barbarians wil not beable

to fall upon you suddenly and unexpectedly, I am Alexander of Macedon” Alter

saying this he rode away, back to is camp and his own post (Hal. 9.45.13).

34, Alexander might well not know which Greek commanders ate present, several
‘may wel be with the Hellen et at Mycale. How and Wells, 29.44.12.

35. The Persian commanders must have very short memories about Alevander—they
should know that nothing very good happens to a Persian after midnight-—especaly
‘when it comes to Macedon and Macedonians.


Page 17, Instance 3, Class: Text
34, Alexander might well not know which Greek commanders ate present, several
‘may wel be with the Hellen et at Mycale. How and Wells, 29.44.12.

35. The Persian commanders must have very short memories about Alevander—they
should know that nothing very good happens to a Persian after midnight-—especaly
‘when it comes to Macedon and Macedonians.

36, See Hat, 81371-4139 where Herodotus goes though the genealogy and
migration ofthe Argead royal house as mid-seventh-cntury refugees fram Argos inthe
Peloponnese—Herodotuy’ Macedonian sources want to establish that Alexander and
‘many of his nobles are Hellous not Barba but of Aggive rather than Dorian or Lona
dec


Page 18, Instance 1, Class: Text
Evidently Macedon is still obliged to supply Mardonios with troops, but
whether they winter with the Persian forces in Thessaly or travel home to
“Macedon atthe end of the 480-campaign season and reassemble the spring of 479,
Herodotus does not say. Clearly, Herodotus is going well out of his way to show
that at a crucial moment Alexander of Macedon is only paying lip service to the
Persians and want to help the Hellenes,

This, Herodotus’ last mention of Alexander I, ends with his account ofthis
Greco-Persian battle in the summer of 479—a stunning Persian defeat, closely
followed by another defeat on the Anatolian coast at Mycale, Herodotus leaves
his readers to determine what influence this timely forewarning has on the
‘outcome ofthe batle of Plataea and to assess Alexander's motives in approaching
the Athenian generals and the Spartan commander Pausanias in particular.”
Remember, Herodotus first mention of Alexander is at least thirty years earlier,
tvell before the lonian revolt at the beginning of the fifth century and at a time
when Alexander is still only a minor and just a prince of Macedon. From other
sources we know that Alexander remains on the throne for another quarter-
century, and that neither he nor his countrymen are held to account for thei
‘medism, With others the Hellenes were not so charitable, Thebes and a number of
svealthy aristocratic Thebans come to mind,

Pan-Hellenism Takes Root

Few have not heard of the late fourth-century military prodigy Alexander-
the-Great, or more properly, Alexander III of Macedon; in fact he is a direct
descendant of the comparatively very litle-known Alexander | of Macedon,
Even fewer will have ever heard of Alexander I's father, King Amyntas I, yet
Alexander [is the only Macedonian given any prominence by Herodotus in his
Histories. Following the inconclusive naval engagement off Artemision, messages
are left on the shore at all the sites that might provide drinking water—these
‘exhort Xersey' Ionian allies not to help the Persians and to ask the Carians not to

37. But asthe Spartans lament so bitterly afte being instrumental in diving Hippias,
the lst ofthe Fesstratid tyrants, out of Athens and into exile at the close of the sixth
‘century—the Athenians ae a thankless people (Hat. $922), Never made dar in this
wellknown Herodotean quotation is who in Sparta said it—perhaps a member ofthe
Gerousisand to whom the Spartans were referring —the privileged and wealthy
‘Athenian arstorats—or those otters who several millenia later in a similar context are


Page 18, Instance 2, Class: Text
Evidently Macedon is still obliged to supply Mardonios with troops, but
whether they winter with the Persian forces in Thessaly or travel home to
“Macedon atthe end of the 480-campaign season and reassemble the spring of 479,
Herodotus does not say. Clearly, Herodotus is going well out of his way to show
that at a crucial moment Alexander of Macedon is only paying lip service to the
Persians and want to help the Hellenes,

This, Herodotus’ last mention of Alexander I, ends with his account ofthis
Greco-Persian battle in the summer of 479—a stunning Persian defeat, closely
followed by another defeat on the Anatolian coast at Mycale, Herodotus leaves
his readers to determine what influence this timely forewarning has on the
‘outcome ofthe batle of Plataea and to assess Alexander's motives in approaching
the Athenian generals and the Spartan commander Pausanias in particular.”
Remember, Herodotus first mention of Alexander is at least thirty years earlier,
\well before the Ionian revolt at the beginning of the fifth century and at a time
when Alexander is still only a minor and just a prince of Macedon. From other
sources we know that Alexander remains on the throne for another quarter-
century, and that neither he nor his countrymen are held to account for thei
‘medism, With others the Hellenes were not so charitable, Thebes and a number of
svealthy aristocratic Thebans come to mind,


Page 18, Instance 5, Class: Text
Pan-Hellenism Takes Root

Few have not heard of the late fourth-century military prodigy Alexander-
the-Great, or more properly, Alexander III of Macedon; in fact he is a direct
descendant of the comparatively very litle-known Alexander | of Macedon,
Even fewer will have ever heard of Alexander I's father, King Amyntas I, yet
Alexander [is the only Macedonian given any prominence by Herodotus in his
Histories. Following the inconclusive naval engagement off Artemision, messages
are left on the shore at all the sites that might provide drinking water—these
‘exhort Xersey' Ionian allies not to help the Persians and to ask the Carians not to


Page 18, Instance 6, Class: Text
37. But asthe Spartans lament so bitterly afte being instrumental in diving Hippias,
the lst ofthe Fesstratid tyrants, out of Athens and into exile at the close of the sixth
‘century—the Athenians ae a thankless people (Hat. $922), Never made dar in this
wellknown Herodotean quotation is who in Sparta said it—perhaps a member ofthe
Gerousisand to whom the Spartans were referring —the privileged and wealthy
Athenian arstoctats—or those ofers who several millenia Ile i a similar coment ane
{quite foolishly and contemprtibly—ctizens with only jst enough to get by, Athenians not
‘wealthy enough to equip themselves and train as hplites, let alone own slaves


Page 19, Instance 0, Class: Text
help them either (Het, 8221-3)" Identity is often bitterly contested whichever
side ofthe fence we chose, one historian writes”

Macedonians—irrespectve of origin, dialect, religious procivites—were citizens

fof Macedonian civic units, and their country, the kingdom of the Macedonians (

Mavcedewww fatorlca) was a state, whereas Greoks were citizens of more than a

thousand states, and Groece was at best, a cultural concept with hazy and variable

contours, and al worst aslogan,

Shortly after Alexander I's death and some thirty or forty years after the
battle at Plataea, Herodotus is still researching, revising his writing, and more
than likely entertaining crowds with excerpts from his not yet complete Histories.
It is fair to ask whether his generally favourable view of Macedon and the
“Macedonian monarchy isnot directed toward some Pan-Hellenic goal —the fith-
century Macedonians are not yet regarded as Hellenes, but encouraged by their
Argead dynasty myth a slow process of Hellenization arguably has its beginnings
luring the late sixth century. During the Second Greco-Persian War Macedon.
‘medizes and supplies Xerxes with troops, but what are the realistic alternatives
for this small nominally independent kingdom—a kingdom always in harm's
‘way ifthe Persians pursue their ambitions to expand their empire into Europe?

(Geography is always important to Herodotus and is important here; had
‘Alexander's kingdom been only a little further north neither the Persians nor the
illenes would have cared one way or the other. For both sides, Macedon would
have remained strategically insignificant and out of mind. Whether Macedon
joins the Delian League after Xemses’ defeat and withdrawal in 479 and
Xanthippus’ siege of Sestos in 478, Herodotus does not say. But it s difficult to
‘imagine that somehow Herodotus’ writings are sponsored propaganda directed
toward preserving an independent and autonomous Macedon against Athenian
expansion in the wake of Xerxes’ unsuccessful invasion and the decline of Persian
military power Perhaps Herodotus’ principal sources are from Macedon and

38, Herodotus’ wording is unambiguously Pan-Hellei, loves, od novere Sawa
eri roe marrégns oTmATEUOYOOL Kai HY EUAtda mradoulodpiewo. Roughly
twanslateas “Men of fon, you do not do what is right by going to war agains [the land
of your fathers and reducing Hellas to slavery” One of Herodotus’ constant themes i
that ia people ate tobe truly Greek then they must first be fe,

39, Mitiades B. Hatzopoulus, Ancien! Macafoni (Berlin; Boston, MA: Walter de
Gruyter GmbH, 2120), 12.

40. The Athenians take a dim view of medizing—but under what cgcumstance
‘might it bean acceptable politcal or miliary ploy and a pragmatic matter of Hobson's
choice? Alexander saw a first-hand what happened in Phocs and what might well have
happened in Boootia had he not intervened —when yous city-state or rural kingdom i on
the route of an invading army you let them pass through and tust that under thei
‘commanders the invading hordes will remain sufficiently disciplined to eschew rope and
pillage.


Page 20, Instance 0, Class: Text
these are anxious to show their late king in a good light? We know from other
sourees that Alexander I rules Macedon until his death in 454, when he is
succeeded by his eldest son, Alcetas I, who rules for about six years before being,
assassinated; he in tur being succeeded by a younger brother Perdiceas Il who
rules from 448 to 413; and, of cours, i is this same Argead royal house that in the
latter half of the fourth century will produce Philip Il of Macedon and his son,
Alexander Ill—Alexander the Great, But itis Prince Alexander who insists that
Grunken fornication is a grotesque violation of xenia—the most enduring and
‘endearing of Homeric and therefore foundational Pan-Hellenic values—and
doubtless much else beside. For good reason Athenian values and practices are
rot adopted hols bolus, Ross Seaife concludes his article with the judgement: «|

‘Thus Herodotus portraysin Alexander a leader whose cultura marginality presented

4 slark choice between heroic resistance and compromise, While the king could

prove his Hellenism in a genealogical sense tothe satisfaction of Herodotus and the

(Olympic judges he didnot support that hevtage in a consistent, dependable manner

Daniel Gillis adopts a less critical and more pragmatic approach to the
reactions of Greek city-states [and others] facing imminent Persian invasions: ©

‘But ideology played remarkably ite role in hose critical nes —ceetainy less than

later Greeks would cae to admit—and options were limited, Survival was the goal

and the methods chosen to attain it difered, One should hardly expect otherwise
froma people as fatious asthe Greeks. They acted under pressure, according o thet
lights. Few were noble. ll were vulnerable

[believe that Scaife misinterprets both Herodotus’ text and Herodotus’ intent
in writing about early fith-century Macedon and their Argive monarch.® Athens,
which as a city has been bumed, razed, and looted twice during the Second
Greco-Persian War, has a credible alternative to medizing—the citizens can
abandon their Attic homeland and with it their ever-unreliable allies and sail en

41 Scaife, “Alexander in the Histories” 137

42. Daniel Giles, "Collaboration with the Persians,” Historia-Einzalsyip: Zest
{fir Alle Geschichte. Hlt 34 (Weishaden: Franz Seine Verlag GmbH, 179) i,

43. Given hs Argie/Argoad heritage Alexander doubles ses himself asa Homeric
hero and one who, if necessary, will indulge in copious Hadi Heoistt—ideally largely
that of his enemies, But he owes this subjects principally shepherds and foresters to
‘come up with a pragmatic resolution of the conflict betwen his personal Pan-Hellenic
‘convictions and his very practical politcal obligation to avoid is adult countrymen
‘becoming both good and dad and dat an go with their children similarly butchered of
the young boys emasculated and packed-of with their female siblings by marauding
Persians tothe Mediterranean slave markets.


Page 21, Instance 1, Class: Text
Conclusions

One objective of this study is to demonstrate that one way or another
Herodotus is a proto-biographer. He writes when the genre of history is ill
defined beyond the obvious—that the subject matter is not entirely myth, or by:
how much must we suspend our disbelief. Just naming an individual, and closely
associating her or him with an historical event, has the effect of granting that
individual agency and therefore some responsibility or credit if things go rather
‘well, and some culpability ifthe desired outcome is not obtained. But as Anne
Geddes writes, “Biographies might contain anecdotes, bt they should not consist
[solely] of them." Indeed that is why [use the term proto-biographer—not quite
there yet.

‘This brings us back tothe: who, what, where, why, and when of story-telling.
By just giving a name—a unique being “far from the madding crowd's ignoble
strife"—Herodotus grants a measure of identity and verisimilitude to this
individual But if Heraclitus is right about character and destiny—then exactly
‘what deed, why, and perhaps with what and then when this individual assumes
autonomy, exercises authority, putting agency into action—this places the

44, See Themistocley speech to his ais just before the battle off Salamis (Halt
2622), Sirsa longrestablshed Ionian colony, was a port city on the Gulf of Taranto in|
southem lay. This mass relocation is something the Spartans cannot even remotely
consider. As a wartor society they rely on thir virally captive helots (lave) 1 fel
‘hei isolationist agricultural economy. Unless itis o fed hay to his favourite racehorse, 3
Spartan male likely will never touch a pitchfork in his ifetie,

45, Geddes, “on of Chios and Politics,” 115

«46. Wit apologies to Thomas Gray and his Egy Write in. Country Cura


Page 21, Instance 3, Class: Text
masse to Sirs in southern Italy and start afresh: something they have already.
threatened to do

Alexander does not have the luxury of sch an escape with safe relocation to
a distant colony for his Macedonian countrymen— they are simple shepherds and
foresters tied to their land base. Compromise can be a dirty word; but sober if
unexciting pragmatism always trumps foolhardiness. Even in Homer's epics
heroic resistance—often understood as valour—has never been an inter-
changeable term with pointless mass suicide, While there is no reason to believe
that Herodotus consults only Macedonian sources about Alexander's role during,
the First and Second Greco-Persian Wars there is another aspect to Herodotus!
observations. Pan-Hellenism is the only certain antidote to medizing and
Herodotus’ sympathetic portrait of Alexander points the Athenians away from
‘unequal alliances based largely on coercion, exorbitant fines, military and naval
dominance, and often punitive retribution.


Page 22, Instance 0, Class: Text
selected individual right in the front row of history. In short, Herodotus makes
sure that story remains part of history. Although he is blissfully unaware of a
‘new and important literary genre to come; this amounts to proto-biography.

Although the focus ofthis study is on one exceptional individu, all of the
foregoing is written with an acute awareness of the narrative issues lurking.
‘behind non-fiction literary genres. Inthe proem to his Histories, Herodotus claims
thathe is interested in the cause of the Greeks and Persians warring against each
other (Hit. 1.1). Perhaps: but not solely In his quest for causation Herodotus
cannot resist delighting himself and therefore his audiences by weaving into his
historical narative all manner of fascinating digressions, including material that
literature scholars might—almost two and a half millennia later—want to lasify|
as biographical sub-narratives. But Herodotus does not stop there. He might now
‘be recognised as the first Westem historian, but in the mid-fith-centary this non-
fiction iterary genre is very new. It is not that the genre boundaries are ill-
defined; there were none. Consequently the author of the Histories can segue in
his book-rolls from fanciful meteorology, to the geography of far-away places
with strange-sounding names, to a discussion of dowries, and then to the
sometimes very diferent matrimonial customs adopted by other peoples.

[Notions of Pan-Hellenism are evident throughout the life of Alexander I. His
Macedon people may not yet be even faintly accepted by others as true Hellenes,
‘but the Macedonian inclusion quest has to start somewhere, And it starts with
Alexander. Of course, if he is eligible, then doubtless his ancestors were also
cligile. Perhaps they were far too busy with other matters, Then there are
practical issues to consider: travelling 600 to 700 kilometres, plus the expenses
and extended absence from the kingdom. Because of geographical realities his
autonomy and agency are constrained. Alexander cannot pursue meaningful
‘membership in any formal Hellen military alliance until the existence of such an.
alliance itself poses a formidable and credible deterrent to any potential
aggressors

‘Nevertheless, Herodotus’ interest in Pan-Hellenism is evident in his choice of
swords, a choice that is dramatically different from the choices made by Homer"
What Herodotus’ contrast shows is that the trident of three A’s—agency,
autonomy, and authoritycan be used for good or ill and that possession of great

47, Herodotus exprossion “pie Coy yeyie te xa oyacta” is wanslated in the
proem as “great and wonderful deeds” altematives include “marvelous exploits’ —
nother word signals any degree of disbelief but irespectve of whether these are deeds oF
‘exploits we sil infer human agency.

48. The term Aciasans (Ao is used 598 times in Homers ia. The other common
names are Dinas (Anas) used 138 times, and Arges (gyi) used 182 times inthe
Tia while for Pay-Hellos (lavéAdnvee) and Helles CEMRec) each appears only
‘once. All of these terms were used synonymously to denote a common Greek
<uillzatonal identity. ll weferences to the Had in wansltion are to Robert Fogles, The
it: Homer (New York: Viking Penguin, 190)


Page 23, Instance 1, Class: Text
power is not enough—the holder has to know how and when to use it wisely —

the difference between (uc) mets and (Bi) bie becomes critical when resort to

Herculean displays of strength are not an option.” Although itis not a question

that Herodotus addresses directly, we might well ask whether Alexander meets

any of Solon’s only lappy when dead criteria Perhaps a corollary to Solon's
happiness criterion should read, “You are only judged happy when your enemies
are dead” and here his happiness is assured.”
Acknowledgments

‘The author gratefully acknowledges the patient guidance of Dr. Dionysia
Eirini Kotsovli ofthe Stavros Niarchos Foundation Centre for Hellenic Studies at
Simon Fraser University during preparation of this article.

Bibliography

Dueck, David, Hugh Lindsay and Sarah Pothecary (Eds) Strat’s Cultural Gavgraply: The
Mating of Kalossougi. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005.

Fogle, Robert (Teans) Th la Homer. New York, NY: Viking Penguin, 1980.

Flory, Stewart. The Avhac Smile of Herts. Detroit, MI: Wayne Sate Univesity Press,
1997,

Geddes, Anne. "on of Chios and Politics.” In The Word of on af Chis, edited by Victoria
Jennings and Andrea Katsares, 110138, Leiden, The Netherlands; Boston, MA:
Koninklijke Bell NV, 2007

Gls, Daniel. "Collaboration with the Persians" Historie Finals: Zetscip fr Ae
“Gechicite. Holt 34, Weisbaden: Franz Steiner Verig GmbH, 1979

agg, Tomas The Art of Biograpy in Amtquity. Cambridge: Cambridge Univesity Press,
2012,

Hatzopoulos, Miiades B. Aucew Macon. Betln; Boston, MA: Walter de Geuytor
‘Ganbt, 2020
49, The Greek word (uijuc) metis meaning cunning oF cally like a fox, oF like

(Oysseus—is not pejorative and often contasted with (Pia) bie brte force. Aj comes to

sind,

50, Alexander lives into his ealy seventics a ripe old age at that time, and des in

454. The reversals of fortune of many’as outlined in the Histor spectacularly ustrate

Solon's maxim that “no one can be judged fortunate until dhe are dead” (Hat. 1.43.7)

Neither Herodotus nor other sources tell us how he died, but it was anything other than

peacefully surely someone would have sid.

5. Back to Gray’s Elegy itis the sexton who has the pleasure of digging the graves
for those parishioners or whom he has the leas regard,


Page 24, Instance 0, Class: Text
Hlomeyer, Helene, "Za den Antingen der Grechischen Biographie” [See the Biographies
ofthe Greeks! Phiblogus: Zits fir anti Literatur und dive Rezeption 106, no. 1
(anuary 1952)7585.

How, W. W. and J Wells A Commontay on Heradotus, Volume 1 (Books I4V). Oxford
‘Clarendon Press, 1912, reprinted in 1957

How, W. W. and J. Well. A Conmentary on Heradtus, Volume 2 (Books V-DY. Oxford:
(Clarendon Press, 1912, reprinted in 1958

Isager, Signe. "The Pride of Hoalikarmassos: Edition Princeps of an Inscription fom
Salmakis”Zetscvif ir Ppyrologie oud Epigraph 123 (1998): 1-23,

Laks, Andné and Glenn W. Most (Eds, and Trans) Early Grek Phils, Value 3: Early
Tonian Thinkers. Log Classical Library Series #526. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press, 2016, 9 Volumes. (LCL Nos. 524-53)

Marcovich, Miroslav. Heraclitus: Gros Tex wi @ Short Commentary. Merida, Venezuela:
‘Los Andes University Pres, 1967.

Pomeroy, Sarah B. Spartan Women. Oxfoed: Oxford Unversity Pres, 202

Prcatley, Jessica. Herodotus an Hlletc Culture: Literary Sts in te Reption of he
Histories, Oxford: Oxford University Pres, 2014

Roisman, Joseph and lan Worthington (Eds) A Companion to Ancient Macon
Chichester, UK: Wiey-Blackwell, 2010

‘Scale, Ros. “Alexander Lin the Histor of Herodotus” Hermes 117, (1989): 129-1.

Straser, Robert B. (Ed) The Landmark Henous: The Histories. Translated by Andes L
Purvis. New York, NY: Random House, 2007.

Viassopoulos, Kostas. Gres au! Boturans. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
2013


