Page 1, Instance 0, Class: Text
SULOCHANA ASIRVATHAM
Montclair Stat University

[A ky feature of some important ancient Greck and Roman wrtings on Ale
xande is their morally lode interes inthe king's connection 1 pilso-
pihy-an association whose origins and implications for both Alexander and
ncient philosophy itself have been hotly debated in modern scholarly and
popular discourse.” OF cours, no one in Greco-Roman antiquity no in the
‘moder cra has arpucd that Alexander was formally a philosopher, but the
characterization of him in both context variously a a ‘philosopher’ some-
fone “plilosophical‘or even as a king who appreciated philowophes and
soup their company i, tomy mind, equcnt and influential enough to bear
SnSBitepipngters Ars Glut, fam opeciy grt ove od he
“The ssociton of Alen wh psy sped taste wey ili
‘Fam ously tcc he Gra Fae Ht Sours and Sa, Yemide,
{bth 95-0) aparey pak ih fm Parse And ora at
incl wht or mappancemared olay Ra's Pes By, cm
ot chee (Cmca mana a Pssst

{alr ener’ ea plnphy sel Ander


Page 1, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘Alexander the Philosopher
in the Greco-Roman, Persian and Arabic Traditions!
SULOCHANA ASIRVATHAM


Page 2, Instance 0, Class: Text
analyisis—especially since this is by no means only # Greco-Roman habit.
When I recently read Richard Stoneman’s excellent, sweeping survey of the
‘Alexander Romance tradition, I was struck at how far beyond the Greco-
Roman world the association between ‘Alexander’ and “philosophy” actually
‘goes, Indeed, the earliest book printed in England in English was The Dictes
‘and Sayings ofthe Philosophers (1473), where Alexander has his own chap-
ter as a philosopher; even more intriguing isthe fact that The Dictes and
‘Sayings go back to the Arabic, not Greco-Roman tation as its an English
translation of a French translation of a Latin translation of an 11" century
Egyptian work. However, as Faustina Doufikar-Acrs has pointed out in het
also-ecent and monumental Alevander Magnus Arabicus, Alexander was
‘not an obviously philosophical figure for Arabs'—even less so, | would say,
than for Greeks and Romans who were the direct inheritors of his conquests,
This paper therefore seeks to examine what Greco-Roman views of Alexan-
dr and philosophy have in common with those found in easter traditions
The association between Alexander and philosophy seems to operate on {0
levels in each tradition. One level is “historical, seen in references to Alex-
ander's historical tutleage by Aristotle (and interestingly, to his nephew Cal~
listhenes in the Greco-Roman sources) as well as in his encounters with the
(Cynic Diogenes and the so-called Brabmans in India, The other level is gen=
crazing or symbolic, where the idea of philosophy’ or encoun-
tersladvisement by groups of philosophers, often lumped together anachro-
nistically, positions Alexander in such a’ way as to give him cache by
comparison, orto critique him by contrast. The context, however, does not
always ‘match’ the philosopher: encounters between Alexander and Aristo
tle, for example, are not necessarily used to make an Aristotelian point. This
does not mean, however, that there is no a “real” philosophy’ behind a par-
ticular writer's generalizations about Alexander and philosophy. It means
that most writers priority was aot to “da justice’ to ether Alexander of to &
specific philosophical school or philosopher, but to promote a particular idea
‘of philosophy that happened to be relevant to world-conquest—something
cevidently on the minds of Greeks, Romans, Persians and Arabs alike


Page 3, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The Greek Tradition
‘The starting point for discussing Alexander in relation to philosophy i the
Hellenistic period, during which we know Alexander became an exemplum
for the qualities ofthe good and bad ruler, although the extant sources are
fragmentary. For a long time scholars believed that Roman authors like
‘Quintus Curis and Seneca who treated Alexander negatively were drawing
directly ona “tradition of hostility” towards the king that was curent in Hel-
lenstc philosophical circles” But it scems thatthe priory of Hellenistic
philosophers was no to serve the needs of Alexander's image, but to serve
the needs of philosophy itself in theorizing kingship. To paraphrase Richard
Stoncman in his 2003 article “The Legacy of Alexander in Ancient Piloso-
iy.” especially inthe new world of one-man rule, the world conqueror who
could sometimes act yrannically was good 0 think with philosophically”

What we seem to be witnessing is what Stoneman, following John
Motes,” calls an atitude of “sot” Cynicism in contrast to the “hard” Cyni-
ism that would be implied by a tation of hostility. We see this firsthand
in Greek imperial writes like Dio and Pluare, who sometimes show Alex-
ander being chastised by a cosmopolitan or ascetic igure while avoiding the
implication that the king is morally hopeless. Inthe Grek tation, there are
two recuring figures—Cynics, in fact—who do the chastsing. Oe i Diog-
nes who, when Alexander asked him i he wanted anything fom hi, fa
‘mousy told the great conqueror to get out of his sun, a story Plutarch tll in
the Life of Alexander 14 The emery ofthe fourth of Do's so~alled King
ship Orations (Or. 1-4 sin fact, dialogue between Alexander and Dioge-
res, the latter of whom Dio clearly deems superior to the former, but of
‘whose wisdom Alexandr is shown tobe rather accepting. The second Cynic
Figure, or figures, are the so-called Brahmans, whieh isthe name the tadic

Thi en wa (omy mind convincing) refed by J. Ris Fear wh posted tat
thae ais belonged o Reman, ot Ces, Sacn (The Sie View of fe Cee
uhm o Asan rot Phtps 18 [174 1830
[alls Companion Ander he Grea sen 03, B86 ronson)
“The enue to osc a De Aton Fortin ont Ve (31, whee Pach
ower Alanson ogg i'r ploy omens

he lwp came ti, be wolf eet leaner, ll Di

oi ei re yeh eo


Page 4, Instance 0, Class: Text
tion used forthe naked philosophers of Taxa,” These men in fat are some-
times associated with Diogenes —not surprisingly, considering tat bis pupil
‘Onesicrtus was apparently the original source for these episodes. Plutarch
‘makes Alexander lok slightly beter in this context, emphasizing in the Life
‘of Alexander 64 that, because oftheir ability to wisely answer questions, the
king decided not to put the sophists to deth for the revolt of Sabbas: inthe
next passage ofthe Life (68) Plutarch quite neutrally compares the behavior
of two Indian philosophers, Calanus and Dandamis (as witnessed firsthand
bby Onesicritus), judging Calanus less mild than Dandamis and telling the
story of how Calanus counciled Alexander to stay focused on the midale of
his empire (which naturally Alexander did not). More casually judgmental
perhaps isa third writer, Avian, who among the Greeks and Romans writes
the closest to what can be called Alexander “hstory’. Arian belongs to the
same literary milieu as Plutarch and Dio, but unlike the later two he does
not promote Alexander in philosophical terms (despite the fact that he was a
Stoic). There is less at stake for Arian when it comes to moral judgment:
linking the Brahmans and Diogenes, le points out that while Alexander
praised the asceticism ofthe Indian sophists, “his actions were different fom.
and contrary to what he commended.’ (4nabasis 2.1) Inthe end, even Phi-
tarch’s depictions of Alexander's relationship with the sophists inthe Life of
Alexander are not radically more omanticizing of Alexander than Artan's.
‘What is important above alli that philosophy is being invoked here to shed
some light on the king as well as on kingship in general, whatever the mes-
sage may be

'As we will see, the ‘soft’ Cynic interest in Alexander would have a last-
ing impact on both the eastem and wester traditions, But wire does Avis-
totle—the frst and most famous philosophical figure in Alexander’ ife—fit
into the picture? Dio, in his subtle way, presents Aristotle self-reflexively,
using the latter's mentorship of Alexander as a scling point for his own,
potential relationship with the pilalexandros emperor Trajan" (who Dio
implies throughout his Kingship Orations could really benefit from a philo-
sophical advisor like himself) But he sees Alexander less as a tru ‘philoso
per’ than asa work-in-progress. For Arran and Plutarch, however, the con-
nection between Aristotle and Alexander is interestingly overshadowed by
that between the king and Aristotle's nephew Callisthenes, who accomps-


Page 5, Instance 0, Class: Text
nied Alexander on his campaigns and whose job it was to promote the Mac-
cedonian king to a Greck audience. Indeed, Arrian mentions Aristotle only in
reference to Callsthenes, implying he was once @ pupil of Aristotle (‘who
hnad given the words of Aristotle @ hearing’; “Aristotelous...0n logan
diakikoota, Anab. 49.6), and—in his own self-eflexive moment—
cchastising him for taking all the credit for Alexander's fame, as Arrian
‘would not presume to do. Plutarch, another selsyled philosopher, credits
Aristotle, “the most famous and learned of philosophers’ (ton philasophin
‘on endoxoraton for aurturing an Alexander wo was ‘naturally predisposed.
to philosophy,” (pros philasophian empephukds) but also points out that tis
‘was not enough to keop Aristotle in Alexander's affections. (Life of Alexan-
der 7-8), This may foreshadow Plutarch’s attitude towards Callsthenes,
‘whom he will Inter inthe Life calla ‘philosopher’ for defying Alexander's
demand for proskynesis and whose demise he naraivey links tothe demise
of Alexander's own philosophical nature" Interestingly enough, it was pos-
sible for an author like Quintus Curtius, who tended to emphasize Alexan-
der's more tyrannical aspects and thus saw Callisthenes as @ hero," to not
bother mentioning Aristotle at al ina work entirely devoted to Alexander.
What is missing, ofcourse, is much trustworthy detail on how Aristotle
influenced Alexander's political philosophy —as opposed to contributing to
his general education, suggesting that even in the Greck Alexander-
tradition Aristotle has become semi-symbolic. (And of course we possess
nothing written by Aristotle on the Macedonian kin.) There is one seeming
exception to this: in De Alevandri Fortuna aut Virtue, Plutarch els us that
‘Alexander rejected Aristotle's notion that he should treat the barbarians as if
they were plants or animals (3296): given the rhetorical context itis difficult,
to confirm or deny this tidbit, which may in fact be a simple extrapolation
ftom Aristotle's theory of natural slavery. The characterization of Callisthe-
"ie stn the mtr ofthe obeisance, ta by resins tly ad ke a piso
Bh hp) perio te ay nn rh a i mb
restr by eign a ist pon the bis" On Cashes he lene
Inthe if ee $1. Asia, “Olympia Saket Clone. San Religion ad
Pol n Ptah feof dlenoner im 8. Asa, Pach, a. Wats
Benue Mic and Religion Inerdpinary Salis n cent Medrranan Beli.
ton and Scie (anham, M.A. 201) ep 18-130... Bsr debunked th
‘on he planer Caltech ace Asoe and Callen: Histor
ost oto; 07a.
"For Car's gs of Aen sit of ali, Hr ead


Page 6, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘nes asa ‘philosopher’ onthe other hand, shows even more clearly how slip=
pery the boundary is between the historical and the generalizing use of the
‘concept of “philosophy” around Alexander. This generalizing view is wit.
essed most strongly in Plutarch’s rhetorical treatise De Alexandri Fortuna
‘aut Virtute, where in one passage, for example, he calls Alexander a“philos-
fopher" (philosophas) for preferring unity (homonoia), peace (eiréné) and
commonality of interests (Linda) forall mankind (pasin anthrdpois) in
preference to winning for himself luxury (iruphe) and extravagance
(olutleia) (3302), he also references Alexander's “philosophic sou!
(Philosophow..psuchés), which encourages him to be in love with wisdom,
(psuchés sophias erin) and admire wise men (sophous andras thaumazein)
G31e). Here Plutarch is not refering to any particular type of philosophy,
‘tis making an implied contrast between the stereotypical king, who is too
selnterested to care forthe common weal and too arrogant to consult other
leamed men, and Alexander. In another passage, Alexander is contrasted
favorably with a whole range of philosophers who wrote nothing, including
Pythagoras, Socrates, Arcesilus, and Cameades, but who had less of an
‘excuse for it since they were not world-conquerors. Even mare tothe point
is a passage from Dio (arguably the most overtly ‘Cynic’ of all extant an-
cient writers on Alexander) in Oration 226, a dialogue between Philip and
‘Alexander. Here Alexander tll his father that one should be open to philos=
fophy only inasmuch as it suits their nature (which must, however, include
‘generosity: there is no need for precision
Nor..isit necessary [fr aking] to study philosophy tothe most precise
point (oude” au philosophias haptestat pros to akribestaton; he must
‘only live unpretentiously and simply, demonstrating by his very deeds
his humane, mild and just—as well as lofty and brave—character, and
‘specially one that rejoices in benefiting others—which is nearest to the
nature ofthe gods. He shoul, indeed, hear those teachings of philosophy
‘when the opportunity presents itself, provided that these are clearly not
‘opposed to, but work in sympathy with, his character.
We see in both authors, then, the idea that philosophy in general is good for
‘Alexander because it is good for kings
‘tari Platarch’s De Alcnundrl Fortuna Aut Vitel, dmericam Joureal of Phillagy 126.


Page 7, Instance 0, Class: Text
So far, the, it seems that not only was Alexander a flexible figure in
‘elation to the philosophers he had historically encountered—Aristtle, Di-
‘ogenes, and the Brahmans but that philosophy itself could be used flexibly
around Alexander for thinking generally about how one-man-rule and con-
{quest in particular could be done thoughtfully rather than rashly. That said,
there is historical specificity to Alexander in these Roman era Greek writ.
cer-—an identification of him as part of the “Grock’ past that is worth r=
‘membering and even glorifying. The historical traces are stil strong in the
anonymous Greek Alexander Romance (otherwise known as. “Pseudo
CCallisthenes’, although its overall message—that even the most powerful
king in the world mus ultimately face his mortlty-—is new withthe Ro-
‘mance tradition and ultimately universal enough to more or less detach Al-
‘exander from his historical circumstances altogether as time moves forward,

In the Romance (whose earliest extant version is dated tothe 3" century),
‘we see an Alexander who lacks a sense of the limits of conquest, bt i nev
crthless “philosophical” wien it counts, and somtimes even more so than
the ‘real’ philosophers. Given wit we have alteady soon of the importance
of soft) Cynicism in Roman Greek views of Alexander, when he reaches a
‘moment of enlightenment in the Romance it i unsurprisingly & Cynic mo-
‘ment; the meeting with the Brahmans. Here Alexander displays a self
awareness and wisdom that we do not se in his rather eavaier treatment of
the Brahmans in Plutarch and Arran, At the beginning ofthe question and
answer scene—te type of set-piece in which Brahmans appear everywhere
in the romance trdition—Alexander approaches these men peaceflly and
‘with genuine humility having received a letter from them:

“We the naked philosophers address the man Alexander. If you have

‘come to fight us, twill do you no good, There is nothing that you can

take from us. To obtain fom us what we do have, you must not fight, but

ask humbly, and ask it not of us but of Providence above... Your busi-
ress is war, ours is wisdom.” When Alexander had read this, he ap-
proached them in a peaceable manner.
At the end, he offers philosophical statements of his own concerning his
‘monality, subjection to divine will, his famous pothos and the imperma-
rence of the material world:


Page 8, Instance 0, Class: Text
Then Alexander sad to them all, “Ask me for whatever you want and I
will give it to you.” At once they all urst out, “Give us immortality.” But
‘Alexander replied, “That is a power I donot have. [too am mortal.”

Then they asked him, ‘Since you are mortal, why do you make so
‘many wars? When you have seized everything, where will you take i?
Surely you will only have to leave it behind for others?

It is ordained by Providence above,’ replied Alexander, “that we
shall ll be slaves and servants ofthe divine wil..For my part I would
like to stop making war, but the master of my soil does not allow me.
Everyone takes from everyone, and leaves what he has taken to others
‘no possession is permanent."

Here the Brahmans act asa supportive foil to a new sot of philosopher-king:
Plutarch’s civilizing conqueror has given way to & king-ofthe-world who
must be pulled down to earth
"As in ealier writers, Aristotle as a limited appearance in the Romance
He is mentioned as Alexander's philosophy teacher, and is also the recipient
fof a ‘leter’ from the king, another set-piece in the romance trdition that
probably originated a a separate piece of literature Here its used more oF
less as a vehicle for telling Alexander's adventures, including the episode
‘with the Brahmans; iti only inthe Islamic texts that these letters will serve
4 philosophical purpose (sce below). Aristotle des come into play one more
time in an episode seen ony in recension A of the Romance: that is, the d=
bate of the ten Athenian orator." This may have a historical core, but as
presented it isan anachronistic hodgepodge of historical figures as diverse as
Heraclitus and Lysias—something that is perhaps echoed in the hodgepods-
«5 of Greck philosophers we'll se in the Persian and Arabic traditions. The
‘question a sake is whether the Athenians should pay tribute to Alexander.
When the orator Aeschines implies that Alexander would be easy for the
“orators—as“tachers'—to placate since he was slavishly obedient to Arist
tle, he is mocked by Demades for his cowardice. Naratively neither
Acschines nor Demades win the day (the prize goes to Demosthenes), but
‘one potentially generalizing message of Aeschines's rejection is that philos-
‘phy has no power to make « world-conqueror milder, something that is
‘bom out in Alexander's life until the very end,
™ Grek lenunder Romance 3.6. R Stoneman: The Grek Meander Romance New
‘Yee 90.


Page 9, Instance 0, Class: Text
Seven centuries or so after the earliest extant version of the Greek Alexander
Romance circulated, the Alexander-romance tradition begins to make its
‘mark in Persian literature. As inthe Greck tradition, Aristotle and the Brah-
‘mans have significant presences in Persian literature. The Brahmans in par
ticular continue occupying the same didactic roe in Persian literature as we
saw them occupy in the Greek Alexander Romance, even when in
Islumicized Persian texts the figure of Alexander becomes increasingly ide-
alized.” Aristotle, on the other hand, moves from idealized foil to Alexan-
der's weakness onthe one hand, toa philosophical advisor on the other who
is useful to the king but whose utility i ultimately limited by his non-Islamic

“llr I conser ive texts: n poetry, Feowsi’s Shalnameh (The Epic
of Kings’; 10/11" century), Nizami's Eskandar-nameh ("The Book of Alex
ander’, from Ouinary or Khamsa) (12" century), and Jam's Khiradnama-i
‘Iskandari Alexander's Book of Wisdom,’ from Seven Thrones or Haft-
Awvang:; 1S century); in prose, two romances, Al-Tarsusi's Darab Namek
(The Book of Dara,” late 12° century) and the Anonymous Iskandarnameh
(The Book of Alexander, 12-14" century)

‘As Dick Davis points out, the first af these texts alone, Shalmameh, is
anti-Amb, but not antlslam.”" A historical epic that with its nationalist and
tical preoccupations can also be seen as a work of political philosophy,
‘Shalmanch shows some dependence on the Greek Alexander Romance. For
fexample, the upshot of Alexander's meeting with the Brahmans in
‘Shalnameh is strikingly similar to what we saw in the Romance: note the
rnearccho between what the Brahmans say in the introduction to their letter
to Alexander in Pscudo-Callisthenes and Alexander's own words at the con-
clusion ofthe meeting in Shalnameh:

It 1970 ad whee wore theve ets Ive ou there singly bl ae

Alctaner ise sight by Sgr ike the Brame, Quen Cadac, See MS.

Soutonte, "Porat of Alene a Penian AleupderRoancsr of he nami Ea

"Davis e) Shamameh: The Person Book of King (New Yetk 2006), x. Al as:


Page 10, Instance 0, Class: Text
Your business is war, ours is wisdom.”
(Greck Alexander Romance 35, inthe Brahmans’ letter)
‘Wise men and warriors are the same
(Alexander's words in Shahnameh)"

By transferring the nugget of wisdom ffom the Brahmans to Alexander and
inverting the meaning to equate wisdom and warriorhood, Ferdowsi seems to
‘be appropriating philosophy for Alexander in way that brings him further
fom his original historical context and prepares ws fr his later general exal-
tation in Persian and Arabic literature, on Persian and Arabic terms. (Alex
ander has already become halfPersian here, as Ferdowsi makes him the
half-brother of Darius—his way of reconciling Alexander's presence on the
scene with the Persian belief that Persia had never been occupied by a for-
ign invader before the Arabs.) Stil, while Ferdowsi tends to surround Alex
ander with philosophy in ways that go beyond Pseudo-Callsthenes, Alexan-
der is more a “philosophy student’ in Shahnameh than he was in the Greek
romance. For example, wheres inthe Greek Alexander Romance Alexander
visits the Brahmans alone, in Shahnamek he is accompanied to this meeting
bby “Greek philosophers” (Davis 503), and in general tends to bring intellec=
‘uals or Greek philosophers with him as envoys when approaching a new
county (thats, when he is not going by himself in disguise)" Unlike inthe
Greek tradition, Alexander is subordinated to Aristotle (Arstlis), who is
‘agin the recipient of  leter, but not an adventure letter this time: here &
dying Alexander tells the philosopher about his plot to eliminate any poten=
tial rivals to the Greek power (what Ferdowsi calls an ‘arrogant scheme")
Aristlis's reaction i «powerful mix of anger and sorrow:

When this leter was delivered to the Greck sage, his heart seemed to

break in two. Immediately he wrote a reply, weeping as if his ine were

tears. ‘The king of the world's missive artived, and he should give up

this evil design of his. As for the evil you have already done, tink no

‘more of it but distribute goods tothe poor. For the future, abstain from

«vil and give your soul to God; sow nothing but seeds of goodness inthe

{759} or general adn, a when ef his phlwopbers pera him ot

ct bee hl iat ee pan en i


Page 11, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘world, From birth we are all marked for death, and we have no choice
‘nut to submit. No-one who died takes his sovereignty with him: he
leaves, and hands on his greatness to another. Live within limits and do
rot shed blood ofthe great families, which will make you cursed until
the resurecton,..The descendants of the Persian kings should not be
Iharmed so much as by a breath of wind. Summon them to your court, but
'be generous to them, feast them, and consult with them."
Here Ferdowsi's own patriotic rivalry withthe Greeks (“The descendants of
the Persian kings should not be harmed so much as by a breath of wind”)
scems mixed with the ‘soft Cynicism” that derides kingly arogance, in the
form of Aristotle's critique of Alexander which again | would say is gencr-
alized, It seems tht the poet's overall project to glorify the Sassanid kings
puts limits on Alexander's ability to seem “philosophical
With the Islamicization of Persian literature, Alexander is transformed
into a prophet and a missionary. Ferdowsi had presented Alexander as &
Christian hero—which is historicizng to the extent that t saw the Macedo-
nian king as being fom that ‘other’ Greco-Roman-Christian world, In
Nizami's Kamsa a century later, Alexander is sil situated in Greco-Roman
antiquity-—he is called the king of Rim (1e. Roman Byzantum)—but is no
longer Christian: rather, he has become a prophet of Islam. That later char-
acterization clearly comes from the Arabic Diu’ I-Qamayn and Wisdom
traditions (sese below), but Nizami also proudly acknowledges a the begin-
ning of his text the ccleticism ofthe traditions from which he is drawing,
‘hich include Pahlavi, Jewish and Christan strands. Philosophy stil plays a
part Interestingly, the closest precursor in sprit to Nizami's text, both in its
cclecticism and its attitude towards Alexander, is probably Pltarch's De
Alesandri Fortuna aut Virtut, the sole idealizing Greco-Roman Alexander
text, and one that depicts the king specifically as a soflesscivilizer. As Phi-
tarch’s Alexander is a Roman Stoic-styl eivilizer, Nizami's isthe embodi-
‘ment of all ood belief systems who goes about establishing the cviizing
rile of law in Islam, In the two-part section of the Khamsa devoted to him,
the Eskandar-nameh, Alexander appears inthe frst part ‘The Book of Hon-
(oF, oF Sarafnamal) as 2 conqueror, not one with lust for conquest but rather
the deste to civilize: in the second (The Book of Alexander's Fortune of
Wisdom’, or Ighalnamah ya Khiradnamah-yi Iskadari) he appears as a sage
and a prophet who surrounds himself with an eclectic end completly ana-
‘hints geomp of pliboooplhern (in ome an, Ser exiangle, inksloe Ariat


Page 12, Instance 0, Class: Text
lle, Thales, Apollonius, Socrates, Porphyry, Hemes and Plato) As in
Ferdowsi, Alexanders also often scentaeling alongside a philosopher on
his visits tothe mers of the lands he will conquer. At the end of the
on in both Isamicized Persian and Arabic Alexander-cxs, we will end to
Sc the subordination of earthly philosopers to igure suchas anges who
feip conect Alexander more dicely to God. In other words, after
Ferlows, the presence ofan Aristotle may enhance Alexanders image, but
1 longer has the lat sy on how Alexander ito he percived by the reader.

The last three Persian works are Jamis 15° century Khivadnama-t
[skandari (Alexander's Book of Wisdom’, one of seven books ofthe Ha
“Avrang, of ‘Seven Thrones) and vo 12-14 century prose romances all
‘which reflect varius strands of the Romance and Arabic taitons. Again
the generalizing or symbolic us of philosophy around Alexander prevails
Jun lls us that Philip hires Aristotle to fll his son with earning and love
of justice (which rominds us that not only Astle, but Plat, iauenced
“Arabic pilosophy); Philp also asks Aristotle to write fr Alexander a book
about the scres of kingship, which Jama present it 1 us, s presumably
fan extraction of Sir al-Asrr, translated into English inthe 12° century as
Secret of Secrets, We are also told tht Alexander has the sayings of wise
‘men writen in gold, and bids Aristotle, Plato and Socrates each to write a
bok of wisdom for him. And asf one needed further proof ofa generalized
notion of philosophy, there is even a moment in which Aristotle tells Alex-
ander, Diagencssiyl, to get out of his sunt Jams also presented other “pilo-
sophia sot pieces that are prominent inthe Arabic Alexander tradition: the
‘esting with the Brahmans, the Letrs of Consolation, and something
calle the Funeral Sentences that loks ike an expansion of Arstol's pile
‘sophical lament in Ferdowsi, The prose romances, al-Tartun's Darab-
‘namah an the Anonymous Iskandarnamah,on the otber band, presot Al
cxande a fal-boode Persian, and show ws the its of plosophys use
in religious context. The comparison with Pseudo-Calisthencs is instruc:
tive. The romances al seem to downplay the importance af philosophers
‘Alexanders story, leaving him to be guided instead by someone sent frm
Providence, which inthe case of the Greck Alexander Romance isa Dying
‘ing inthe frm af «man (2.41) but in the Persian romances i isthe goat
mystic Khide, from the Siat tradition that Douflkar-Aers recently discov
cred asa separate strand of the Arabic Alexander teaditin (ce below). I
Sco tht i these Islamicizod Persian texts, then, when it comes to ging

3 Bren B The Emperor Alba's Khamsa Nizam. (London 1995) 58.


Page 13, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘trump the philosophical advisor.
‘The Arabic Tradition and Conclusion

Even as the historical Alexander is increesingly supplanted by an Islamic
‘one inthe east, the desire for writers to postion him somehow in relation to
philosophy does not change, Doufkar-Acrts has showed that Alexander
lppears in four major traditions of Alexanderswrting in Arabic: the Pseudo-
CCallisthenes tradition; the Alexander Wisdom literature tradition (which can
bbe traced back to Hellenistic and Byzantine sources like the “Mirror of
Princes,": the Dhu’ LQamayn tradition (which emerged from the reference
to Alexander in Qur'an verses 18.82-08) and the Popular Alexanderepic
(Sirat) tradition, which takes from the earlier three traditions,” a number of
which, we have seen, naturally influenced Persian literature. The emphasis
of all is monarchy, both human and divine: Alexander's character ranges
fiom king of kings in the Pscudo-Calisthenes tradition to the philosopher-
king (and eventually missionary) in the Wisdom literature tradition to the
‘pious monotheist and missionary king" inthe Dhu' I-Qamayn tradition t0
the ‘explorer, who, inspite of himself, fulfils the role of missionary king on
Gods command” inthe Sira tradition *

The motif of philosophy’ is particularly frequent in the Wisdom Tradi-
tion, for example, in set-piece likes the “Funeral Sentences", where philoso-
pphers make pronouncements, one after the other at Alexander's deathbed. It
ts in the Wisdom tradition that Aristotle finally gets his duc: indeed,
Douikar-Aerts has postulated that the ewly-discovered Epistolary Ro-
‘mance, a series of philosophical letters between Alexander and Aristotle that
socms to have developed independently from the Pseudo-Callsthenestradi-
tion, are a major source for Alexander Wisdom literature. What is striking
for the purpose of my argument is that, even at a time when Arab thinkers
were deeply engaged with Aristotle, his presence in the Alexander-indition
seems rather fully fictionalized, a function not of Aristotelian philosophy”

(Canova (ed) Oneme Modena, Ses on Araie Epc, 222,83 a3, (203) $0820,

eb 507)
M0 Gensch (Un rm dpsoice eecoarte’ in 1. Ch ize snd M. Beas

[ads The Protemarcr of Power, Eancrn and Wester Representations of leaner


Page 14, Instance 0, Class: Text
but rather the desir fo se Alena a  rihnkng abot ingship
oN

i pn ain etsy Alaa ly ee
cra oe sn tons we Wp
Sanya at spon,
Sag ting af he an on cas fom
nbn wl Kane Set on itd wt
Spit nel ser emg
Mit tn sn sa oR ng sb
Sra i ge Imp cg ow nip
Suman fr kr rere en een
“Sten cs ay Gs) in
Spice one ots bbe gs
Seton ep hn md ea
ot Al a pia! Uniden
tilupy oral rcp hl dr may
Sonn una oly neon a
Sl yay un! he ge ad to lesany be a
pict hn nsw seat, Cnn mle Psy


Page 15, Instance 0, Class: Text
philosophers it is because he is a ‘philosopher’ in his own right, just as when

he pronounces philosophical maxims in the Arabic Wisdom Itrature trai-
‘As hinted above, one might abo sce writing about a pilosopher-king as

asolfeflexive activity fr writers with humanist hen. On the Grek side,
for example, men like Dio Chrysostom, Aran and Plutarch who identify

Alexander positively with philosophy or use philosophy to shame him also

tend to be the ones who selFidentiy as philosophers and thus ean claim

authority on theories of kingship.” As for Persian iterture: Ferdowsi's use

‘of Arsotle to shame Alexander is sefeflexive tthe extent tat this post's

rojo sone of quas-nationalistic political philosophy. For educated medi-

{val Arabs, “wisdom literature constituted the basis of Arab padi (aa),

and was accordingly an intgrl part of the upbringing and intelectual api-

{al ofall educated Arabic speaking members of medieval Islamic civiliza-

tion" hence ta write wisdom was in some snse to embody wisdom. Nev=

crthcles, some Ilamicized Persian and Arabic texts may show the least =
reflexivity when they tlk about plosophy’ and Alexander because of thet
focus onthe divine realm. In thse texts pilsophers ae too cathy to pro-
vide eoighteament. Ax Alexander himself reaches enightsment and trans-
Forms fom king to prophet, the philosophers so often the advisors to earth
iy kings must give way tthe prophets
Bibliography

Asivata SRClsiam and Romain Pals De lean Fortin a Ve
"imran ora of Pag 361 2031138.

— “Shap” Soke Clie Sed Regon ad Polis in Pas Le of
‘Metter 8. Ravan © Pcs Nato Beer apa ion
‘etapa Sus nce Mera Rona Sie (aay MLA

Door AD, Ai dCi Hier 11970) 4071,

nd The Enger dors Rho (ado 1995,

DvD. (r) Shh Te Pen Bat Rigen os 200.

Doar Mtndr Nga rae (een 201)

Pen andar amc Poplr Rama of Aside’ G. Canova (ol)
rt ders, Sato tae Fp 2 Hons 200 505520.

Tisciors 1330,
eae a hin morn ain rte, ample he pe of te younger


Page 16, Instance 0, Class: Text
rigs M. Un rma pla rd arabe’) Ch Bare nd M. igo (ed), The
"Pratematis of Power, Extrn and Hestre Representations of letaner the Greet
(term 196), 109-129 see op. 117118).

‘Guns Cla Arabic Wado Litre: Naure and Sop’ onal of he Americ
"Oriental Soc 100981} 486

Mes The ysis ad Politics" A Lab nd M. Scholes. Jie and Genera
(Camtdge 1995), 129.158

‘Southgate MS Ports of Alexandr in Pein Alexander Romances ofthe Islamic Ea
Jounal th mcrion Oneal Sie 97.3 (197), 278284,

‘Stora, R lesan the Great Life Legend (New en 2008,
Romance The oral of Helle Sir 1151988) 99-114

— te), The Grek Alernder Romance New York 199),

"The Lepey of Alexander in Anse! Pionpy io. Roaman (el) Bil Compan
sont dlesandr the Gre (Lede 203), 325 36

|W. Wa, Alecnder the Grea ole: Sourcer and Sais Cari, 1948),


