Page 1, Instance 0, Class: Text
the Amy forces ofboth sides, what the batle was lik,
and eventally. what was the aftermath of the fight
However, the el focus was onthe disagreement between
Pamenio and Alexander the Great When they had come
cross the Hellespoat,iially there were about 47000
people who had finished the jb(3), but in fat, the
umber was oo large that the wealth that they had eared
With them could aot afford a more provacod bate more
than a month or 0. (4) The econonte sue motivated the
Macedonians to overtake a vital city to food the
Population. In the meanwhile of matching toward the
and amy of Darius, some of the defenseless ides were
fovced to submit wo the Macedonians [S]Appaetly. the
few ueasres thi those tes had wer too litle to solve
the economic problem. A Geeck general, Memon, who
served the Persian king.A great Army like the one
Aletander rough, woul surrender easily if the supply
lie had Boo cut (6f the plan was taken by the Persian
ing, the Macedonian army would hive been defeated


Page 1, Instance 1, Class: Text
Alexander the Great’s Characteristics, from the
Perspective of The Battle of River Granicus
Qinyan Tong

ASUS fom SuchowUlink College of chow Indra Park, Shou, Hans 21500, China
hdyongO1014321@Gnai.com
AnsTRACT
‘Aletander the Gest was koown se ofthe mot enable and influential peopl in Greek history and ater Eopean
istry. His tions sal improve our understanding of Greek culture wernendousy. As the Primary resource proved 10
pio in hinory. This paper aimed 0 analyze buna civilization developmen ofthe patil region (Gee), fom
{he perspective of pivotal penn, egantng a specific acon, which refs his personality. Thi paper aalzed the
sacra betncen Aleander the Great an i greats general. ne of his ost ecognized genras, Pareto
took which wee argued inextaeliale eimay resources agreed inthe Ancient Greek history community. This paper
{te nore of sce, which is  long-un benefit, thin wining simple bate; however, he wa proved to be
{esearch eating the rinary and aecondary sources tht had been wea the eseach proces Hopeflly within te
Iigher understanding of Alexander the Gea. Moreover. student could Team from hi abou the decision-maker
cotsideing risks when facing, about how to havea broader spt, think out ofthe box, cers incest pedi other's
Keywords: Alexander the Great, Parmenio, Disagreement, Leadership, Rsk-taking, Anticipation for

the Any forces of both ses, what he bate was ks,
1. INTRODUCTION fd eventually, what was the afemath ofthe fight

Hovicven the teal ncus was the dicaonoenens between


Page 1, Instance 2, Class: Text
1. INTRODUCTION

nthe past story of Alexander the Great taming
Bucepulus, people had stated 10 notice thatthe young
‘man of Macedon could see things hat exer people could
‘no Other than that, anther example that Pure used
to tesy the characterise of Alexander was thi just
before the Bate of Ganicus, Alexander and his general
Parmenio had some disagreements of wheter they
sould atack the Persian amy just when they asived ot
Stay forthe aight The actions that Alexander the Great
took were sen as ater an obstruction, [1] Ax Plutarch
believed tht the chascteisties of man afe more
<ecisive and enuil,“minors confit" ik the argument
between Alexander and Parmenio do. count as
demonsation ofthe slvious Alexander [21a this ea
[ll determine the background infomation about bow
the Bate of Granicus River was so import, what was


Page 1, Instance 3, Class: Text
Alexander the Great’s Characteristics, from the
Perspective of The Battle of River Granicus
Qinyan Tong


Page 1, Instance 5, Class: Text


Page 2, Instance 0, Class: Text
parts of the battlefield soon began to get intease. (16) The
He pars diet faced the ote side just ike both sides
aneipated to be. However this wa. the chances that
‘Alexander would win af at that big. soe bad ile
“supise” forthe Persian anny. He didnot fae the
leting ofthe Persian cavalry like the Persians wanted
thm to do: they tuned tthe middle and the entra the
Peoria amy. They moved faster than the fan ofthe
Macedonians. Hence there was a time that the
Companion cavalry was facing 4 tce-fonted bate: it
was imded ete, too fies that Alexander was almost
Killed, When Alexander was about to be sabe inthe
back by Persian ride, Alexander's person bodyguard
Cetus Uilled te Persian, resulting fom the dling
nasow miss. [17] Righter the farce ended, the infantry
nally crossed the river and joined the fight. The infanry
pushed the Persian avaly backward, giving some elit
tothe cavalry and the probaly wounded Alexander was
Soon back oa his hose again. (18] Due othe advantages
that the Gresk infantry Bad, they soon had conta ofthe
Datlefel- Lucky enough the Companion cavaly ofthe
letwing ofthe Greek army’ had just finished up wih the
Greck cavalry tht they were dzelly facing. Hence they
joined the fight inthe middle. [19} As the elit that
things ha become, ts easy opedictthe triumph of the
Macedonian army. The exciting thing is tht although
most of the Persian amy had eeveated. the Greek
Imerenaros did nt: they asked forthe forgiveness of
‘Alexander the Great) in omder to” surender.
[2021fAlexander did not agree: my personal
understanding i that this Was taken a6 test for bis
courage and braver. Peps he des not believe dha the
losing side had the ight ta bargin expecially when the
winning of the bate Is sinost definite by the time
However, thanks to his impetnence, he hd lost one of
his hoses and Knocked down the brs and that docs
Actually mtr sine he's the leader ofthe country and
the ea ofthe amy. Though, yes he did win he Bate
fe)
5. ANALYSIS OF THE DISAGREEMENT
My personal intrest was in the disagreement.
Pamenio thought shat as son a the eesians found out
that they were outumbesed, they would eet and Walt
for buchup forces [23[Purmenio als felt that having
sand bt inthe mide of « nau iver could volte
the advantage that they had a suong ifaty. Since the
Persians had a mote potent Cavalry force which seemed
like an enhancement tothe Persian ay nbs fought
inthe middle of the sve, signiicanly when they were
cutnunbered, However, Alexander the Great actually id
the exact opposite. He sai hat they bad come though so
many thing and gone this far already. They sbould not
be slowed down and stopped by the litle steam tht
ne aly torlcenne One Thee one tae ed die,


Page 2, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘but he did not trust Memnon. Finally, the grand Persian
army was but ust as Alexander wanted them odo
2, SITUATION OF ARMIES.

Historians have aggued tht the number of actual
soir that each side had, unfortunately afer centres,
the accurate number was tough estimate. Overall. the
‘Macedonian amy proved to have about 38000-80000
‘men, ab the Persian army ad about 380000 t0 40000
‘met (7) Though thatthe aumbers tay do nt have that
Ich academic solid evidence t suport their ides, the
majority of historians do belie thatthe Macedonian
army had a sight advantage in tems of soldiers. Some
people also argued that thee were about 10000
‘Macedonians that were aleady in the rego waiting fr
‘Alexander to ative [8]On a smaller eae, the Persians
‘a less infty power, but the caval forces shoud not
bbe gnored. [9]They had planned bow to use thei
aavantages sn the bate, as will be writen ia the
Following pzagraph
3. PRE BATTLE OF THE RIVER
GRANICUS

[Now th Persian armies were on one side ofthe River
GGranicus, probably wih distance so that itis easier for
them to atack the Greek woops ght afer they crossed
sand landed on the shore of ver Granicus, armen had
disagreement with Alexander on wheter they should
stack the Pesian army ght away or wait fo da. [10]
‘There ae disagreements between whetber of not the
‘Macedon army atacked just then or immediately, bu
fiom the timeline ani ny personal understanding of
‘Alexander the Great, he di lead he airy to Datus
just when they arived. The hey infantry forces ofthe
‘Macedonian army’ wee all placed inthe mile wing to
face the main power of the Persian influence and 10
‘maximize the advantage of heavy infantry. [11)The
Iefiwing cavalry was ed by Armenia, «small group on
ove side of the snfany. The other side Was also the
cavalry bu led by Philos, son of Parmenio. (127The
Persian cavalry was placed along the side of the ever
GGrancus, ane infany was separated into tee piccs,
right along jst behind the cavalry fores, aiming 10
strengthen the cavalry enhancement [3]Afer the sa
hw the Greeks had placed their amy ey changed the
rangement. [14]Now tee is only one unit of Calvary
inthe mide, an the iafantry Was seated sight behind
‘There were tee unis of cavally to the side that
‘Alexander the Great the king wasn and tthe ight
‘where Parmenio and his companion cavalry was headed,
us}

4. DURATION OF THE BATTLE OF
GRANICUS


Page 2, Instance 4, Class: Text
5. ANALYSIS OF THE DISAGREEMENT
My personal intrest was in the disagreement.
Parmenio thought tht as Soon asthe Pesins found out
tht they were ounumbered, they Would teveat and wait
for backup forces (23]Parmenio alo fl that having
grand bate in the mile of «muddy iver coud violate
the advantage that they hada suong infany. Since the
Persians had a mae peat Cavaly fore which seemed
lke an enhanceneat othe Persian amy in bles fought
inthe middle ofthe iver sigaiicanly when they were
outnumbered. However, Alexander the Great actualy di
the exact opposite, He sd that hey had com trough
many things and gone ths far leads. They should not
be slowed down and stopped by the litle steam that
could barely inuence them. That was the second time
that Alexander the Great had shown bis leadership and


Page 3, Instance 0, Class: Text
death rate, hence the casualies could have been

exaggerated few. Alexander had ordered 10 build

memorials foreach and every ofthe sactificed soldi.

‘Alexander bad aso called be send some of the shields of

the defeated Persians back to Atsns with the iseription

nslated to English “Alexander, son of Php, and the

‘Grecs, except the Spartans, dedicate these spoils, akea

fiom the barbarians who dwell in Asia” [25] That was

the famous shield inscription event. It was old tat it was
an answer tothe Athenians, for they bad punished the

Persians for burning down te temple of Athens in 480

B.C. The language on the sic was, in fet, Geek: it

was told and speculated to be the propaganda of

Alewander to spread the woeds of his victor. That was

inde succes in River Granicus. The aftermath that was

Fight afer the bale was listed above. However, the

Shield inscription was an exciting topic, bu ot what 1

hose to focus on fortis paper

8, CONCLUSION

‘The Rattle of River Griscus was undoubtedly &
spectacular start for Alexander the Gre who was King
inhi 20s. Historians have been mostly debating aver the
isogreement between Parmenio apd Alexander the

‘Great In my opinion, Alexander the Great ell seldom.

id things that were wrong: moee likey, be Mad other

plans, othe whole Greek culture did not develo the

Sense. Overall. Alexander focused move onthe more af

Soldicts instead of winning one bat, especially when

‘Alexander thought tha their ststegy ofthe fight woukl

lead thm viclor. Hence Aletander chose 1 bea good

leader insted of a general, who focuses moxe on the

Winning ofthe bate. He thoughts would be beter i he

an masiate the soit, 10 promote them to ight with

psion and glory. che results wil be beter when they

Wasted for dark Alexanders person that o things with

bravery, otherwise he wouldat have such glamorous

resils. This isa way that he persuade people tht he is
the one thy should follow, ncded as leadership.

REFERENCES,

[i] Aran 2013), book 1 chapter 13, ML Hammond
amp: 1. Jobo Atkinson, Trans, Aleandse the
‘Grea, Oxford University Press, Oxfud, 1

{2} Phutar(2021, book 1 ehapte 7. LacusCunis Life
‘of Alexander the Great, uchicago.eu, Chicag, |

[3] Historia Civiis, 2019. The Bate of the Granicus,
Tonline) Available a
‘thgpe/Iworw youtube com/watchtv=w_3Walgn
‘(Accessed 27 August 202]

|) Avan 2013), book 1 elapror 12, M- Hammond
amp: 1. John Atkinson, Trans, Aleandee the
‘Great, Oxfud University Pes, Oxon, 9


Page 3, Instance 1, Class: Text
ow he could see things deen than others. The fist,
time was when be tamed Bucephalus.
6, FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
DISAGREEMENT

Historians argued that Alexander made the decision
sing more emotions oter tan careful thinking of logic
However. fom what my understanding of leaders i
iF Alexander waited, yes the army would probaly have
sill Won the bate but the heat ofthe Macedonian army
‘would not be the same, Alexander was known ss good
Teade, both poiucal and on the batleild, but his
stcces could not have been this remarkable without his
‘rand army. The emotions and the morale ofthe sors
Sometimes le moe impostant status than the number of
the soldiers, It snot that there were no examples tht
‘Alexander won the bute even with fewer sldles on the
‘Macedonian side He may or may not have though about
itso clearly, but his actions told us that he aleady began
to notice that quantity does not mean destined Veto.
(Ove thing hat Alexander was so obsesed wih wis
‘making sue thatthe army avays knew that they weee
‘ing to win, He wanted the military to fee his pasion
So ta they would figh wih lve jas ke hia in the
bate, Alenander relized that winning war wat
lundoubedly import, but the morale of soldiers was
{usta important. The passion that he wanted them 0 fee
the needed time to support. He would pally give some
chances of winning aay to make sure thatthe morale of
the soldiers as passione. Not wo meation that they do
rot hive 100% winning possibility if they waited for
dav, ad they would a definitely ful f tacked ight
fay. In Alexander's subconsciousness, they were
‘inning abate if remained i jus lke winning using
Sophisticated tactics. Alexander i not a person tht does
‘ot want to take any iss Infact, weal know hat higher
tisk makes higher profit anda god leader knows what
Ind of ks ae wise to ake 1 not wrong tha people
say tha Alexander made the decision by more emotions
‘an exquisite thing, but Alexander actully bad his
sense deep inside his subconsiousness: he ba thought
bout thse psychoogieal aspects in the second that he
‘was facing the choice, Tha also a property tha We sy
‘hat destined the fate of Alexander ben the King of Asa,
7. APTERMATHS OF THE BATTLE OF
RIVER GRANICUS

Finally, the estimate of losses inthe bale of River
GGrancus, historians actully debate about it all the tine,
the fe antique sources thatthe modern historians had
access 0, provided diferent answers cach had Vaous
Suspicious bass. Plutarch meationed in his book that
‘ete were only about 3 people that were killed in the
Date 8 of them wees infant. [24] The number was
considered too few, the way thatthe strugsle had been
‘having made a found foundation to an uncontrollable


Page 4, Instance 0, Class: Text
[5] Hiswosia Civili, 2019. The Bate of the Granicus
Toning) ‘Available Fe
‘thups/twww youtube convwateh?v=Ldw_3Walgn
etAccesed 27 August 2021]

(6) Avian 2013), book 1 chap 12, Mt. Hammond
‘anp: J. Joba Atkinson Trans, Alexandre the
‘Great, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 9

[7] Historia Civils, 2019. The Bate of the Granicus
Toning) Available Fe
‘thups/twww youtube convwateh?v=Ldw_3Walgn
etAccesed 27 August 2021]

[8] Hiswosia Civili, 2019. The Bate of the Granius
Toning) Available FE
‘thups/fwww youtube con/wateh?v=Ldw_3Walgn
e>tAccesed 27 August 2021]

[9] Historia Civils, 2019. The Bate of the Granius
online) Available Fe
‘thups/fwww youtube conm/wateh?v=Ldw_3Walgn
etAccesed 27 August 2021]

{U0} Arsan (2013), book 1 chuper 12, M. Hammond
amp. J Joba Atkinson. Trans, Alexandre the
Great, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 9

[11] Arsan (2013), book 1 chuper 13, M. Hammond
amp: J Joba Atkinson Trans, Alexandre the
Great, Oxford University Press, Oxf,

[12] Asian (2013), book 1 chap 14, M. Hammond
amp: J Joba Atkinson, Trans, Alexandre the
(Great, Oxford University Press, Oxf,

[13] Asian (2013), book 1 chuper 14, M. Hammond
Xanp: J Joba Atkinson Trans, Alexandre the
(Great, Oxford University Press, fou,

[14] Historia Civili, 2019. The Bate ofthe Granius
online} Available Fe
‘thups/twww youtube convwateh?v=Ldw_3Walgn
etAccesed 27 August 2021]

[1S] Historia Civili, 2019. The Bate ofthe Granius
online} Available Fe
‘thups/twww youtube con/wateh?v=Ldw_3Walgn
e>tAccesed 27 August 2021]

[16] Hisoxia Civili, 2019. The Bate ofthe Granius,
online} Available Fe
‘thups/twww youtube convwateh?v=Ldw_3Walgn
etAccesed 27 August 2021]

[U9] Arsan (2013), book 1 chapter 15, M. Hammond
amp: J Joba Atkinson Trans, Alexandre the
(Great, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 8

[U8] Historia Civili, 2019. The Bate ofthe Granius
online} Available Fe
‘thups/twww youtube convwateh?v=Ldw_3Walgn
etAccesed 27 August 2021]


Page 4, Instance 1, Class: Text
[19} Ain (2013), book | chaper 16, M. Hammond
amp: 1. Jobo Atkinson, Teas, Aleandee the
‘Great, Oxfod University Pes, fou, 2

[20) Arian (2013), book | chaper 16, M. Hammond
amp: 1. Jobo Atkinson, Trans, Aleandee the
‘Great, Oxford University Pes, Oxfoud. 2

[21] Phueh(2021), book 1 chapter 16, LacasCuris,
Lifeof Alexander the Gre chicago dy, Chicago,

[22] Historia Civies, 2019, The Bae ofthe Granius
fontine) Available a
‘thtpe/Iwwrw youtube com/watchtv-dw_3Walgn
‘(Accessed 27 August 2021]

123} Amin (2013), book 1 chaper 13, M. Hammond
amp: 1. Jobo Atkinson, Teas, Aleandee the
‘Great, Oxfod University Press, Oxf,

[24] Historia Chilis, 2019, The Bate ofthe Granius
online) Available a
‘thgpe/tworw youtube com/watchv-liw_3Walga
>(Accesed 27 August 2021]

[25] Amin (2013), book | chaper 16, M. Hammond
amp: 1. Jobo Atkinson, Tea, Aleandee the
‘Great, Oxfocd University Press, Oxford, 7


