Page 1, Instance 1, Class: Text
INTERNATIONAL HELLENIC UNIVERSITY
‘SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES
MA IN BLACK SEA CULTURAL STUDIES


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Central_Asia/Figure\page_1instance2.jpg]

Page 1, Instance 3, Class: Text
\& INTERNAT INTERNATIONAL HELLENIC UNIVERSIT
YS HELLENIC SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES
2A” University MAIN BLACK SEA CULTURAL STUDIES
The Black Sea region and Asia: Politics and
International Relations


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Central_Asia/Form\page_2instance1.jpg]

Page 3, Instance 1, Class: Text
(Ph: Classical Philology
JH: Joumal of Hellenic Studies
>

‘The figure of Alexander IIL of Macedon, commonly known as Alexander the
Great, inevitably dominates the history of his reign. Historians typically identify
‘Alexander the Great as brilliant military tactician and commander and, accondingly, it
is his own military actions which receive the fullest documentation. nthe eleven
years between his erossing of the Hellespont in the spring of 334 B.C. and his death in
Babylon in 323 B.C, Alexander ereated one of the biggest and most powerful empires
of the ancient world that stretched from Greece to Egypt and into modem-day
Pakistan, pushing the frontiers of Greco-Macedonian civilization aeoss the borders of|
India

‘Alexander's legacy extended beyond his conquests. His armed campaigns
fused the Greeks’ Mediterranean centered economy with the Asian centered economy
of Persia, Commerce flourished between the Greek and Persian worlds, with trade
Tinks being established as far east as India and China, creating virtual world
economy. Moreover, vast areas to the east were significantly exposed to Greek
civilization and influence and some of the cities, which have been founded by
‘Alexander, became major cultural centers and many of them surviving into the 21°


Page 4, Instance 0, Class: Text
influence!

Especially, the Central Asia, which has inthe past tended to be regarded as a
frontier region of the worlds of the Mediterranean, Near East, India and the Eurasian
‘Steppe, is increasingly coming to be studied as a cultural and political entity in its
‘own right, The area was an especially dynamic zone of cultural interaction, which
politically became part, at the beginning of the Achaemenid Persioan Empire until the
‘Alexander's conquest. There is a rich archaeological record available from this
period, much of which has only relatively recently become accessible to scholars.

However, a critical estimation of scholarly writings reveals plainly not only
the qualitative but also the quantitative differences inthe acceptance of the Alexander,
even though the available textual sources remained immutable. In other words, the
study of Alexander's conquers is frustrating and challenging because of the nature of
the source material, The modem scholarships have only a small number of
inscriptions, numismatic evidences and random comments from historians that are
contemporaneous’, Although much was written about the life and the seizures of
‘Alexander during his reign, these contemporary works has not survived in their
entirety to the present day. What remains of them are to be found quoted or
paraphrased by much later authors in their own histories of Alexander‘, There is, then,
‘a hiatus of close to three centuries between the death of Alexander in June 323 B.C.
‘and the fist connected narrative of his reign.

“The main purpose of this paper is to present an overview of the conquests of
‘Alexander in Asia, Moreover, the latest archaeological material obtained during the
‘excavation of the Central Asia is, beyond any doubt, extremely important and needs
"1s imeresting to observe that Alexander did wot impose te use of Macedonian dialect, but be opted
for the Amie dialect, peehaps because it was already a dialect spread tnoughout the Meditetanean
world because of trade. 8, Horrocks 200, 457
Narain 1965 155,

"Row scholars judge Alexander the Great as a conquetor and tyrant, despite the fact that many other
scholars eat again this negative tendency, transforming him to a ciillaesUberatr ofthe Hellenistic
world, The reslt that seis of ieconciable version of Alexander ar preseting but no an
uuuform o coheretpituseS- Bosworth 1986, 1

eis aot unl several centuries after the ‘Alexander's death that modem historiography gots
connected nara of the feign by Diodorus Siulus (1° cenury B.C.) Quitus Curtis Rus ("
fontuy AD) Pluaich (1 century B.C. 1" ceatuy AD.) Laciws Flavius Anianus (2 century
‘AD) and Justin (3" century A.D.) who epitomized Pompeius Trogus history ofthe world (1* century


Page 5, Instance 0, Class: Text
to be investigated further. It opens up possibilities for a revaluation and a substantial
revision of the history of this region. However, only the continuation of a properly
planned archaeological and historical research can provide new materials, which will
make it possible to expand even more our picture of the history of Central Asia under
‘Alexander the Great and to specify its detailed features more accurately


Page 6, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Alexander was born in July 356 B.C. at Pella, the capital of the Macedonian
{Kingdom and was the son of the Philip I, the king of Macedon’, and his fourth wife,
‘Olympias, the daughter of Neoptolemus 1, king of the Molossian kingdom of Epirus
in north-west Greece*. In his childhood, Alexander was tutored by the strict Leonidas,
Whose methods did not meet with the expected success. In contrast, Alexander's
education under Aristotle was more creative and substantial”, bringing the frst into
lose contact with Greek culture’

Early on, Philip associated his son with him in the exercise of power and its
related responsibilities. When Philip waged war against Byzantion in 340 B.C., he
entrusted the conduct of the kingdom to the sixteen-year-old Alexander. During
Philip’s absence, the young prince was also given the opportunity to mount an
expedition against the formidable Thracians Maedi on his eastem border, founding in
parallel a new Greek-style city on the site of their capital, and giving itis own name,
‘Alexandroupolis

Meanwhile, the city of Amphissa began to work lands that were sacred to
‘Apollo near Delphi, a sacrilege that gave Philip the subtle opportunity to meddle in
the affairs of southem mainland Greece’. Although Philip had often tied to lessen
Greek unease over his activities, it was apparent that a confrontation with Greek
powers could no longer be avoided. Thus, at the famous Batle of Charonea in 338
B.C. the Macedonian army marched against a coalition of Greek city-states, which
* Macedon was the product ofthe union of Upper and Lower Macedoa, which was completed inthe
time of king Philip land to which were ade new cites conning new citizens. S. Sheppard 2008,
49. Worthington 2012.23
Cane 2004, 13
* Roan 1989, 566-567
* Gaus 2008, 232, supports hat itis possible wo demonsuate that Alexander proceeded wih his
{umpaigs onthe bass of geographical conceptions which are mentioned in the works of Ase
"The teat was acutely noticed by the Athenian sttsman Demosthenes, who cautioned other
‘Athenians against giving tenclver over to Macsdonian contol, Demosthenen First Philippe. 43
Diclorus Siculus, Libsary of Histors, XWL84 LD. retete thet Philie wee anabitious to wean the.


Page 7, Instance 0, Class: Text
hhave been head by Athens and Thebes", Philip's superior leadership along with the
active participation of Alexander outmatched the Greek allies. The result was a
sonorous defeat for the Greek ally", which led to Macedonian hegemony"? . Philip
sought to establish his leadership over Greece and unite the whole of Greece with
Macedon against the Persian Empire, seting the stage for a pan-Hellenie expedition”
However, the good relationship between Philip and Alexander suffered a
setback in 337 B.C. when Philip repudiated Olympias and married Cleopatra
Eurydice, a Macedonian princess, and Alexander along with his mother went into
exile, because of his violent altercation that inevitably ensued. Diplomacy served
eventually o bring about the son’s return, despite the fact that Olympias remained in
Epirus. In 336 B.C., while at Aegae attending the wedding of his daughter Cleopatra
to Olympias’s brother Alexander I of Epirus, Philip was assassinated, shortly before
the was due to take over command of the expedition that he had already dispatched
‘against the Persian Empire". Alexander at the age of 20 was proclaimed king by the
nobles, expressing his deste to sucveed his father as king and hegemon of the Greeks,
and to fulfil Philips last ambitious plan, the invasion of Persia. Although the Greeks
and Thracians revolted when Philip died", Alexander swiflly reimposed Macedonian
hegemony in Greece and in eatly spring 334 B.C. he led his army into Persia"


Page 7, Instance 2, Class: Text
"ta the fest half ofthe 4 contury B.C, during the early yous of Philip's live, shore had Been sce
‘major Greck powers Athens. Sparta and Thebes which coasistd a tet obstacle in Pailip's uy 10
extend he power of Macedon over the whole Geek auinand S. Sheppard 2008, 26-30.

"sin, Aplome.IX.3 refers ta the Heedom ofthe Geek ete died onthe Held of Chaeronea.

"= Rodbuck 1948. 78. After the victory at Chactonea, Philip Was named Hegemon of the Hellenic
‘Alliance “League of Corin, which was established at Cori, including the majority ofthe Greek
cay-states, except Sparta, ad announced his plas to atack 10 the Persian Empire the Grooks
‘chal and to punish Persian for the juries they ificted on the Greoks and especially their
desecration of Greck temples in thee ivasion of 480479 B.S, Diodorus Steals, Library of History.
YXVLB9.1 Fredicksmeyer 2012, 335, Poddighs 2012, 129

"The Pesian Empie under the Achaemenid dynasty founded by Cyrus, was stetched from the River
Indus inthe eas to the Aegean an the west. from the River Janats (Syr-Darya) in the northeast
(ich flows through the modern-day Uzbekistan and Kazakstan) to the Egypt in the south. .
Gatledge 2004, 4.

"The dolls of this sondd event are imposible to unravel satsfactoily and conspiracy theories,
ancient and moder, abound,

DiodonsStuls, Library of History, XVI,

"asian, Anabasis, LAL.


Page 8, Instance 0, Class: Text
IL. The major stages of conquest in Asia

With Greece and Thrace in order, Alexander invaded Persia in 334 B.C. with
approximately 50.000 soldiers, drawn from Macedon and various Greek city-states".
He crossed the Hellespont, symbolically casting a spear into Asian soil before he
disembarked to show he regarded Persia as “spear-won” territory, and then
immediately went to Troy to sacrifice atthe tomb of his hero and ancestor Achilles.
Soon after Alexander advanced to the Granicus River in Phrygia, where he defeated a
Persian army”, the fist of the three major pitched battles between Alexander and the
prime forces ofthe Persian Empire, he proceeded along the Ionian coast, dealing with
any resistance and freeing Greek cites from Persian rule, in accordance with one of
the reasons for the invasion that he had promised before to the League of Corinth*™

In 333 B.C. Alexander detoured to Gordium, where he untied the famous
Gondian knot". tn the same year, Alexander journeyed south, where he was met by
Darius’ significantly larger army in Fssus, which he easily defeated, causing the Great
King to panic™. The Battle of Issus was quite certainly significant from the point of
View of the morale of Alexander and his troops. Rather than pursue Dasius® after the
battle, the Macedonian king announced his attention to go to Egypt, which he reached
in 332 B.C., while he proceeded to take possession of Syria and most of the coast of|
the Levant and after being distracted for some time (almost seven months) by the
ifr in a big sean this part. S. Cade 200,30
™ alexander was inordinately proud of his descent from Heracles and Achilles, and, stepped in Homer
from an early age he certnly believed that it was his destiny to val the explais of the eros.
Stewat 1993, 78, Sheppard 2008, 100-101. Fedihamyer 2012 343,
"atthe Ganis Aleander showed ot aly the supetirity of his arty’ skis and ning, but also
ability commande. 8. Sheppard 2008, 125-128
2 Cards 2004, 112.
The symbol of Alexander's act was obvious, fr twas writen that whoever cut the knot would
conguce Asia. According tothe sory. Alexandr proclaimed tht i didnot mater how the knot was
{done a hacked apr wh is sor.
ecoclized and feaol for his lif that he fed the Bate, lwing behind among the camp
fallowets who flint Alexanders hands hs own wife, histo dadghers and his mothe. Alexander
indess owards hose be conguered. 8. Sheppard 2008 138-117
2Maleunder was defintely ilunced by the integration policies of Dav, who had lid the
foundations forthe rue of vast, socal heterozeneos Kingdoms, suchas his own empire. 8.
Sovpwslon 2013, 484


Page 9, Instance 0, Class: Text
famous siege of the Phoenician city of Tyre. His main object was to isolate the
Persian fleet from its bases and soto destroy it as an effective fighting force”

‘The Egyptians welcomed him as a liberator, since they had suffered cruelly
under the Persian yoke, and Alexander in tur flattered Egyptian national sentiment,
doing conspicuous honour 10 their gods, while the Persian satrap, Mazaces,
surrendered the country to him. During his stay in Egypt, he founded Alexandria (the
fist city of that name), a major centre for the dissemination of Hellenic civilization
and culture throughout the Middle East and the Roman world, and he also visited the
Oracle of Zeus Ammon atthe oasis of Siwah, inthe western desert of Egypt bordering
‘on Libya, a visit that was a key turning point in his pretensions to personal divinity*

‘Alexander had now completed the frst stage of his grand strategy. He had
firmly secured the whole ofthe east Mediterranean seaboard, and in summer 331 B.C.
the marched eastward in pursuit, again, of Darius. The Great king was stil alive, and
thad managed to regroup his forces by gathering reinforcements. Leaving Egypt in 331
B.C, Alexander marched eastward into Mesopotamia (now northern Iraq) and met
Darius in the Battle ar Gaugamela, the old capital of the Assyrian Empire, where
‘again defeated him, Darius once fled the field, and Alexander chased him as far as
Arbela, while marched to occupy the important palace capitals of Babylon, Susa and
especially Persepolis. The last was the symbolic heart ofthe Persian Empire, and as
‘Alexander prepared to leave it, five months after, at early spring 330 B.C., the palace
‘bummed tothe ground™

“The destruction of the palace eame to symbolize the end ofthe Persian Empire
and Darius, who was murdered at Hecatompylus (in west Khurasan in Tran) in the
summer of 330 B.C. Bessus, Satrap of Bactria (north and central Afghanistan),
succeeded him, proclaiming himself Artaxerxes V, before retraining into Central Asia
to launch a guersilla campaign against Alexander. However, Alexander faced over
‘wo years of intense guewilla fighting before pacifying the biggest part of the Cental
2 Sheppard 2008, 151-164
‘Ammon was confirmation of his divine patonage and his sight wo rule the world. Platarch, Le of
‘Aiecander, 27. Diodos Stun, Library of History. XNILS13. ain, Epitome, XL.U.10. Crt,
“Lf of Alcander the Great IN-128- 8. Wortinglon 2012, 33
int 201,18. The baring of Pespols meat, in effect, tht the original aims ofthe ivasionof|
‘Asia -pnisheat ofthe Persians ad fing the Greeks ccs of Asia Minor had been aekieved. 8.
‘Worthington 2012. 208


Page 10, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Asia, a campaign that culminated in his marsiage to Roxana, the daughter of a
‘Sogdian nobleman Oxyartes”. During this period, Alexander founded a series of new
cities, all called Alexandria, including modern Kandahar in Afghanistan and
‘Alexandria-Eschate in modem Tajikistan, while the campaign took Alexander through
Media (North-Western Iran and South-East Turkey), Parthia (Iran), Aria (West
Afghanistan), Drangiana (a territory around the lake Hamun on the Irano-Afghan-
Pakistan border), Arachosia (South and Central Afghanistan), Bactria and Seythia
During his time in Asia, Alexander did not only take the Persian ttle “king of
kings” but also adopted some elements of Persian dress and customs". Both of these
‘actions ean only be connected to his belief in his own divinity, reflecting the dramatic
change of his personality". In addition, the integration of Persians into his army
‘caused dissatisfaction, and because of growing discontent against him and thems,
‘Alexander grew suspicious of those who were close to him. Thus, at Phrada (modern
Farah in western Afghanistan) in 330 B.C. he had Philotas executed and his father
Parmenion assassinated”, and in 328 B.C. after a drunken quarrel he killed Cleitus at
Maracanda (modern day Samarkand in Uzbekistan) for his undue praise of Philip"


Page 10, Instance 2, Class: Text
% Shepp 2008, 196

* Alter the visto Sia in 332 B.C. Alexander callod himself son of Zeus and wo make maters worse
{in 277 B.C. at Balkhstempted to enforce the Aslan custom of proslynets(genuflection fact that
pst him the sympathies of is counuymen,

Sent 2012, 59

©The exection of Philos and the murder of bis fier, Parmenion shed an unfavourable ight on
‘Alexander character and on telationships of his younger Macedonian geetals.S. Heckel 2012, 37,

* Worthington 2012. 205.


Page 11, Instance 0, Class: Text
After his martiage to the Baetrian noblewoman Roxana, Alexander turned to
the Indian subcontinent. However, the Indian campaign is characterized by the
excessive slaughter of local people and itis the bloodiest part of Alexander's entire
expedition. In spring 327 B.C. Alexander marched from Bactra through the Hindu
Kush (an 800 km long mountain range that stretches between central Afghanistan and
northern Pakistan) and advanced towards the plain of the Indus. He split the invasion
force into two, one half under the command of Hephaestion and Perdiceas, which was
to march Co the Indus via Hindu Kush and secure the main communications route, and
the second under himself, which marched east through Laghman (eastern
Afghanistan) into the Swat (north of the modern Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province of
Pakistan)"

In the winter 327/326 B.C., Alexander faced the Aspasians of Kunar valleys
in modem Afghanistan and Pakistan), the Gouraians of the Guraeus valley
(northwestern Pakistan) and the Assakenians of the Swat (located close to the
Afghanistan-Pakistan border) and Buner (province of Pakistan) valleys, while in
spring 326 B.C., the Macedonian forces met at the Indus, and after bridging it, moved
to the capital Taxila (in Pakistan), When news came that a neighboring prince,
Porus, refused to yield to Alexander, the Macedonian king set out immediately 10
meet him and the two sides did Bate ar the Hydaspes River (modern Jhelum River
that flows in India and Pakistan)". Alexander erossed the river against no small
adversity, and once on its opposite bank quickly and decisively defeated Porus" This
significant victory of him was celebrated by founding two new cities on opposite
sides of the Hydaspes River, naming one Bueephala, after his horse Bucephalus, who
© Narain 1965, 156. Khan 2013292,
® Malden 1880, 28,

Arian, Anabasls, IV 23.1


Page 12, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘had died from exhaustion following the battle, and the other Nicaea (thought to be
located atthe site of modern day Mong in the Punjab province of Pakistan)"

East of Porus’s kingdom, near the Ganges River (a trans-boundary river of,
‘Asia which flows through India and Bangladesh), were the Nanda Empire of
Magaadha (extended from Bengal in the east -in modern south Asia-, to Punjab in the
West and as far south as the Vindhya Range -is a range of older rounded mountains
and hills in the west-central Indian subcontinent, which geographically separates the
Indian subcontinent into northern and southern India-) and further east the Gangaridai
Empire (of modem day Bangladesh). Fearing the prospect of facing other large armies
and exhausted by years of campaign, Alexander's army mutinied at the Hyphasis
River (Beas, in north India), some 390 miles from the Hydaspes, refusing to march
farther east, marking the castemmost extent of Alexander's conquests". Alexander
eventually agreed and turned south in 325 B.C., marching along the Indus. Along this
way his army conquered the Malhi (in modem day Multan in Pakistan) and other
Indian wibes. Alexander sent a big part of his army to Carmania (modern southern
Iran) with general Craterus, and commissioned 4 fleet to explore the Persian Gull
shore under his admiral Nearchus, while he decided to led the rest army back to Persia
through the more dificult and dangerous southern route along the Gedrosian Desert
land Makran (now part of southern Iran and Pakistan)”.

“That march was a disastrous epilogue to the Indian campaign, for it cost him
dearly in manpower, because of the harsh environment and the lack of food and
water. In addition, any successes he had won in India evaporated almost as soon as
he left, as the native people shrugged off Macedonian rule and retured to the status
quo", With the horrors of the Gedrosian march behind them, the Macedonian army
arrived in Susain 324 B.C.


Page 13, Instance 1, Class: Text
Nothing daunted, it was while at an advanced stage of planning yet another
major campaign, this time against the Arabs, that Alesander was taken il at Babylon
‘Atihe end of May, Alexander developed a fever, which soon confined him to his bed.
‘Alierlapsing into a brief coma, he died on June 323 B.C., atthe age of thiny-three
‘years under somewhat musky circumstances”, Alexander had never made adequate
provision forthe secession, nor did he name an heit or even an executor of his wil
‘Thus the history moves ftom the period of the brilliant conqueror to that of his
© Yan 2012.28,
© Bowwort 2012, 293.

“ Despite the fact that Alexander did no aiize the people who compe his rece funded empire
subject, but sequal member tere had aver ben te acl of per putipaton a alin
‘euper sip of administration. Convey. Aled believed in th Cla spiny fol 0
{pon of heap, he Macedonians and ihe Pesan S.Syopouas 203,86

2 Wethngton 12 2102

“Aa Anh, VILTS 1 341-3,

"The case of Alexanders death wil always be a tpi for dbus, since the sous give a whole


Page 13, Instance 2, Class: Text
Not long after, Alexander left Susa, and by summer 324 B.C. he was at Opis
(not far from modem Baghdad, the capital of the Republic of Iraq), where he
announced the discharge of his wounded and veterans. His oops misunderstood his
intention and they refused © be sent away and criticized his adoption of Persian
customs", Alexander faced the men’s refusal to back down for three days, until
finally he began to transfer Macedonian military tiles and commands to Persians
‘The Macedonians quickly gave in, and to celebrate the end of the mutiny and his,
forgiving them, he held a great banquet of reconciliation and prayed for concord

From Opis Alexander travelled to Ecbatana (in the east of Iran), where his
closest friend Hephaestion died, Alexander ordered various honors for him, as well 3s
1 decree for public mourning. In early 323 B.C, Alexander and his army arsived at
Babylon, despite various warnings and portents that indicated his life was in danger“,
and he had drawn up plans to invade Arabia, and intended to launch that campaign
from Babylon.
SS

IL. Alexander's death and succession

Nothing daunted, it was while at an advanced stage of planning yet another
major campaign, this time against the Arabs, that Alexander was taken ill at Babylon.
At the end of May, Alexander developed a fever, which soon confined him to his bed
‘After lapsing into a brief coma, he died on June 323 B.C. at the age of thirty-three
years under somewhat murky circumstances". Alexander had never made adequate
provision for the succession, nor did he name an heir or even an executor of his will
‘Thus the history moves from the period of the brilliant conqueror to that of his
© tan 2012, 281,
+ Bosoah 3012, 293
“Despite he fat that Alexander did no utilize the people who comprised his een founded empice
‘he upper sip of administration. Conversely, Alexander believed i he cultural speioty of ony 0
‘tions of his empite,te Macedonians andthe PeiansS. Syopouls 2013, 486
Worthington 2012. 210211
* Avram, Anas, VILL 1.2813,
“© The cause of Alexander's death will always be a topic for debate, since the sources give a whole


Page 13, Instance 3, Class: Text
Not long after, Alexander left Susa, and by summer 324 B.C. he was at Opis
(not far from modem Baghdad, the capital of the Republic of Iraq), where he
announced the discharge of his wounded and veterans. His oops misunderstood his
intention and they refused © be sent away and criticized his adoption of Persian
customs", Alexander faced the men’s refusal to back down for three days, until
finally he began to transfer Macedonian military tiles and commands to Persians
‘The Macedonians quickly gave in, and to celebrate the end of the mutiny and his,
forgiving them, he held a great banquet of reconciliation and prayed for concord

From Opis Alexander travelled to Ecbatana (in the east of Iran), where his
closest friend Hephaestion died, Alexander ordered various honors for him, as well 3s
1 decree for public mourning. In early 323 B.C, Alexander and his army arsived at
Babylon, despite various warnings and portents that indicated his life was in danger“,
and he had drawn up plans to invade Arabia, and intended to launch that campaign
from Babylon.


Page 14, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Successors. However, the empire could hardly survive Alexander's death as unit. As a
‘result, not only the army was divided and each section favoring its own commander or
combination of commanders, but also a long and bitter struggle for control of the
empire ensued,

By the early 3" century B.C. there were three major kingdoms in Greece and
the Middle East: the Antigonid in Macedonia and rest Greece, the Ptolemaic in Egypt
‘and the Seleucid in Asia, of which the latter two were the most powerful, and the
Seleucid the nearest to retaining something like Alexander's Asiatic legacy intact. A
fourth, the Atalid kingdom based on Pergamum, was added in the course of the 3rd


Page 15, Instance 0, Class: Text
sm progue

It is undoubtedly easy to conclude that the vision of an empite where the
conquerors should not feel like conquerors and the conquered should not feel Tike
conquered was the challenge Alexander tied to resolve during his shot life. Very
soon he realized the need for social and national integration of the numerous cultures
he ruled. The Macedonian king applied extensive policies on creating common
cultural points of reference for the political and cultural heterogeneous nations he
controlled by using common language, common currency and common traditions,
Without, however, to uproot the individual characteristies of each of them

‘This model for Alexander's administration of his vast empire was based on
Philip’s IL political experimentations in northern Greece, and in its turn this was
inspired by the Persian system of administration. Its interesting to observe that not
‘only almost all the previous system of administrating culturally heterogeneous nations
hha failed ~ a fact that can be seen in recent European history with the breakdown of
Yugoslavia ~ but also that the conscious effort for the unity of contemporary Europe
draws many of ts principles on the system modelled by Alexander the Great


Page 16, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘© Bosworth A. B. (1986): «Alexander the Great and the Decline of Macedon»,
in Jounal Hellenie Studies (HS), Vol. 106, pp. 1-12.

‘© Bosworth A. B. (2012): «The Indian Satrapies under Alexander the Great», in
1. Worthington (ed), Alexander the Great, a Reader. New York: Routledge,
pp. 237-244.

‘© Bosworth A. B. (2012): «The Death of Alexander the Great: Rumour and
Propaganda», in I. Worthington (ed), Alexander the Great, a Reader, New
York: Routledge, pp. 251-275

‘© Bosworth A. B. 2012): «Alexander and the Iranians», in Worthington (ed).
Alexander the Great, a Reader, New York: Routledge, pp. 286-312.

‘© Briant P. (2009): «Alexander and the Persian Empire, between “Decline” and
“Renovation’», ia W. Heckel ~ L, Trittle (eds), Alexander the Great: a new
History, Oxford: Blackwell pp. 171-188.

‘© Briant P. (2010): Alexander the Great and his Empire. A short Introduction,
|A. Kuht (tr1), Oxford: Princeton University Press,


Page 16, Instance 2, Class: Text
Arian, Anabasis of Alexander, L11.3, 17.1,1V.23.1, V8.4, 19.4-5, VILI6.1, 24.1.3.
Curtius, Life of Alexander the Great, 1.7.2.
Demosthenes, First Philippic, 43
Diodorus Siculus, The Library of History, XVL84.1-2, 89.1, XVILSI3.
Justin, Epitome of the Philippie History of Pompeius Trogus, X.3, X10.
Plutarch, Alexander ~ Perseus, LXLI, LXULL
Plutarch, Life of Alexander, 27
Bibliography

‘© Bosworth A. B. (1986): «Alexander the Great and the Decline of Macedon»,
in Jounal Hellenie Studies (HS), Vol. 106, pp. 1-12.

‘© Bosworth A. B. (2012): «The Indian Satrapies under Alexander the Great», in
1. Worthington (ed), Alexander the Great, a Reader. New York: Routledge,
pp. 237-244.

‘© Bosworth A. B. (2012): «The Death of Alexander the Great: Rumour and
Propaganda», in I. Worthington (ed), Alexander the Great, a Reader, New
York: Routledge, pp. 251-275

‘© Bosworth A. B. 2012): «Alexander and the Iranians», in Worthington (ed).
Alexander the Great, a Reader, New York: Routledge, pp. 286-312.

‘© Briant P. (2009): «Alexander and the Persian Empire, between “Decline” and
“Renovation’», ia W. Heckel ~ L, Trittle (eds), Alexander the Great: a new
History, Oxford: Blackwell pp. 171-188.

‘© Briant P. (2010): Alexander the Great and his Empire. A short Introduction,
'A. Kuhrt (trsl), Oxford: Princeton University Press.


Page 16, Instance 3, Class: Text
IS EOE OIE EIN ADA NES EOE NII OO
Cantus, Life of Alexander the Great, 1.7.28
Demosthenes, First Philippic, 43
Diodorus Siculus, The Library of History, XVLS4.1-2, 89.1, XVILSI.
Justin, Epitome ofthe Philippic History of Pompeius Trogus, 3, XI...
Plutarch, Alesander ~ Perseus, LXI, LXILL
Plutarch, Life of Alexander, 27.


Page 17, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘© Brunt P.A, (2012): «The Aims of Alexander», in L Worthington, Alexander
the Great, a Reader, New York: Routledge, pp. 59-70

‘© Cartledge P. (2004): Alexander the Great. The Truth behind the Myth, Essex:
Macmillan 2004

‘+ Fredricksmeyer E, A. (2012): «Alexander's Religion and Divinity», in 1
‘Woxthington (ed), Alexander the Great, a Reader, New York: Routledge, pp.
335-356.

‘© Geus K. (2003): «Space and Geography», in A. Erskine (ed), A Companion to
the Hellenistic World, Oxford: Blackwell, p.p. 232-245,

‘+ Heckel W. (2012): «The Conspiracy against Philotas» in L Worthington (ed).
Alexander the Great, a Reader, New York: Routledge, .p. 370-380.

‘+ Horrocks G. (2001): «Fxom Classical Greek to Koines, in A. F. Chaistides
(ed), loropia ms Eiiquwcjs Tiéooas. And uc Apyis tos mv Yorn
Appeadrnra, AOiyva: Centee for the Greek Language, Institute for Modern
Greck Studies (M. Triantaphyllides Foundation) pp. 457-467

‘+ Khan 1. (2013): «Alexander's campaign aeross the Hindu Kush. Genealogy
and political history of his Successors», in M. Trios ~ M. Papanikolaou ~ S.
Pavlidis (els), Alexander, the Greek Cosmos ~ System and contemporary
slobal Society, Vol. A, Thessaloniki: Academy of Institutions and Culture,
pip. 229-238.

‘+ Malden H. E, (1880): «Alecander the Great in Affganistan», in Transactions
of the Royal Historical Society, Vol. 8, pp. 223-229.

‘© Narain A. K, (1965): «Alexander and India», in Greece and Rome, Second
Series, Vol. 12, No.2, pp. 155-168,

‘+ Poddighe E. (2012): «Alexander and the Greeks: The Corinthian League», in
1. Worthington (ed), Alexander the Great, a Reader. New York: Routledge,
pp. 129-151

‘+ Roebuck C. (1948) «The Settlements of Philip If with the Greek States in 338
B.C, in Classical Phililogy (CPh), Vol. 43, No. 2. pp. 73-92.

‘+ Romm J. S. (1989): «Aristotle's Elephant and the Myth of Alexander's
scientific Patronage>, in American Journal of Philology (AJPh), Vol. 110, No.


Page 18, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘© Sheppard R. (2008): Alexander the Great at War. His Army, his Battles, his
Enemies, London: Osprey 2008,

‘© Stewart A, (1993): Faces of Power. Alexander's Images and Hellenistic
Politics, United States of America: University of California Press.

‘© Syropoulos S. (2013): «The European Poliey of Unity and Alexander's Poliey
‘of Omonoia», in M. Tritos ~ M. Papanikolaou ~ S. Pavlidis (eds), Alexander
the Greek Cosmos ~ System and contemporary global Society, Vol. B.
“Thessaloniki: Academy of Institutions and Culture, p.p. 484-493.

‘© Tarn W. W. (2012): «The Mutiny of Opis», in L Worthington (ed), Alexander
the Great, a Reader, New York: Routledge, pp. 281-282.

‘+ Worthington 1. (2012): «<The Question of Macedonian Ethnicity», in 1
‘Woxthington (ed), Alexander the Great, a Reader, New York: Routledge, pp.
23-26.

‘© Worthington 1 (2012): «Alexander the Great, Nation Building, and the
Creation and Maintenance of Empire», in 1. Worthington (ed), Alexander the
Great, a Reader, New York: Routledge, pp. 203-215.

‘© Worthington L 2012): «Man and God» in 1. Worthington (ed), Alexander the
Great, a Reader, New York: Routledge, pp. 328-334


