Page 1, Instance 0, Class: Text
The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Anabasis of Alexander
‘This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts
of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it,
give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included.
With this ebook or online at www, .utenberg.org. If you are not located in the United
States, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Anabasis of Alexander
‘Author: Arrian
‘Translator: Edward James Chinnock
Release date: September 27, 2014 [eBook #46976]
Language: English
Credits: Produced by Chris Cumow, Stephen Rowland, Turgut Dincer
and the Online Distributed Proofteading Team at
|htp:/www.pedp.net (This file was produced from images
‘generously made available by The Internet Archive)
‘¢** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ANABASIS OF
ALEXANDER ***
THE
ANABASIS OF ALEXANDER.
THE


Page 2, Instance 0, Class: Text
PREFACE.

\Wutex T began this Translation, more than two years ago, [had no intention of publishing it;
Dut as the Work progressed, it occurred to me that Arian is an Author deserving of more
attention from the English-speaking races than he has yet received. No edition of his works
hs, so far as [am aware, ever appeared in England, though on the Continent many have
‘been published. In the following Translation I have tried to give as literal a rendering of the
Greek text as I could without transgressing the idioms of our own language. My theory of
the duty of a Translator is, to give the ipsissima verba of his Author as nearly as possible,
‘and not put into his mouth words which he never used, under the mistaken notion of
improving his diction or his way of stating his case. It is a comparatively easy thing to give
2 paraphrase of a foreign work, presenting the general drift of the original; but no one,
unless he has himself tied it, can understand the difficulty of translating a classical Author
correctly without omission or mutilation,

In the Commentary which I have compiled, continual reference has been made to the
other extant authorities on the history of Alexander, such as Diodorus, Plutarch, Curtus,
Justin, and Aelian; so that I think I may safely assert that, aking the Translation and the
‘Notes together, the book forms a complete history of Alexander's reign, Much geographical
and other material has also been gathered from Herodotus, Strabo, Pliny, and Ammianus;
‘and the allusions to the places which are also mentioned in the Old Testament are given
from the Hebrew.

‘As Arrian lived in the second century of the present era, and nearly five hundred years
after Demosthenes, it is not to be expected that he wrote classical Greek. There are,
however, at least a dozen valuable Greek authors of this century whose works are still
extant, and of these iti a safe statement to make, that Arran isthe best of them all, with the
single exception of Lucian. 1 have noticed as many of his deviations from Attic Greek
constructions as I thought suitable to a work of this kind. A complete index of Proper Names
hhas been added, and the quantities of the vowels marked for the aid of the English Reader.
In the multiplicity of references which I have put into the Notes, I should be sanguine if
imagined that no errors will be found; but if such occur, I must plead as an excuse the
pressure of work which a teacher in a large school experiences, leaving him very litle
‘energy for literary labour.

ELC.


Page 3, Instance 0, Class: Text
Artian’s Preface 6
BOOK 1
cua,
1. Death of Philip and Accession of Alexander —His Wars with the Thracians 8
T. Battle with the Triballians 2
IL Alexander at the Danube and in the Country of the Getae 1s
IV. Alexander destroys the City of the Getae.—The Ambassadors ofthe Celts 16
V. Revolt of Clitus and Glaucias 48
VI. Defeat of Clitus and Glaucias 2
VIL. Revolt of Thebes (September, n.c. 335) 23
VILL Fall of Thebes 28
IX. Destruction of Thebes a
X. Alexander's Dealings with Athens M
XI. Alexander crosses the Hellespont and visits Troy Eta
XII, Alexander at the Tomb of Achilles.Memnon’s advice Rejected by the Persian
Generals a
XIIL Battle of the Granicus (B.C. 334) aL
XIV, Arrangement of the Hostile Armies pr
XV. Description ofthe Batle ofthe Granicus 45
XVI Defeat ofthe Persians.—Loss on Both Sides an
XVIL Alexander in Saedis and Ephesus 0
XVIIL Alexander marches to Miletus and Oceupies the Island of Lade 2
XIX. Siege and Capture of Miletus 5s
XX. Siege of Halicamassus.—Abortive Attack on Myndus, Es
XXI. Siege of Halicarmassus ol
XXII. Siege of Halicarnassus a
XXII. Destruction of Halicarnassus.—Ada, Queen of Caria o4
XXIV. Alexander in Lycia and Pamphylia 6
XXV. Treason of Alexander, Son of Agropus re
XXVI Alexander in Pamphytia.—Capture of Aspendus and Side mn
XXVIL Alexander in Phrygia and Pisidia R
XXVIIL Operations in Pisidia 4
XXIX. Alexander in Phrygia 6


Page 4, Instance 0, Class: Text
IL The Persians capture Tenedus.—They are Defeated at Sea 80
IIL Alexander at Gordium 2
IV. Conquest of Cappadocia. Alexander's Illness at Tarsus ry
V. Alexander atthe Tomb of Sardanapalus.—Proceedings in Cilicia 81
VI. Alexander advances to Myriandrus.Darius Marches against him 9
VIL. Darius at Issus.—Alexander’s Speech to his Army 1
VIII, Arrangement ofthe Hostile Armies ry
IX. Alexander changes the Disposition of his Forces a
X. Battle of Issus 8
XI. Defeat and Flight of Darius 101
XII, Kind Treatment of Darius’s Family 104
XIIL, Flight of Macedonian Deserters into Egypt.—Proceedings of Agis, King of 9,
Sparta.—Alexander occupies Phoenicia
XIV. Darius’s Letter, and Alexanders Reply un
XV, Alexander's Treatment of the Captured Greek Ambassadors.—Submission of
Byblus and Sidon i
XVI The Worship of Hercules in Tyre.—The Tyrians refuse to admit Alexander 17.
XVIL Speech of Alexander to his Officers 120
XVIIL Siege of Tyre.—Construction of a Mole from the Mainland tothe Iskand 1
XIX. The Siege of Tyre 13
XX. Tyre Besieged by Sea as well as Land a
XXI. Siege of Tyre a
XXII. Siege of Tyre.—Naval Defeat of the Tyrians 129
XXIIL Siege of Tyre LL
XXIV. Capture of Tyre 132
XXV. The Offers of Darius rejected —Batis, Governor of Gaza, refuses to Submit 134
XXVI. Siege of Gaza 136
XXVIL Capture of Gaza LI
BOOK IIL
1. Conquest of Egypt.—Foundation of Alexandria 440
I, Foundation of Alexandria, Events in the Aegean 12
IL Alexander visits the Temple of Ammon 4
IV. The Oasis of Ammon az
V. Settlement of the Affairs of Egypt 1s
VI. March into Syria.—Alexander's Kindness to Harpalus and his other eal
werent * 150
VIL, Passage of the Euphrates and Tigris 12
VILL. Description of Darius’s Army at Atbela 4st
IX, Alexander's Tactics. His Speech to the Officers Ast


Page 5, Instance 0, Class: Text
XIV, Battle of Arbela.—Flight of Darius
XV. Defeat ofthe Persians and Pursuit of Darius
XVI. Escape of Darius into Media, March of Alexander to Babylon and Susa
XVI. Subjugation of the Uxians
XVIIL Defeat of Ariobarzanes and Capture of Persepolis
XIX. Darius pursued into Media and Parthia
XX. March through the Caspian Gates
XXI. Darius is Assassinated by Bessus
XXII. Reflections on the Fate of Darius
XXIIL Expedition into Hyseania
XXIV. Expedition against the Mardians
XXV. March to Bactra.—Bessus aided by Satibarzanes
XXVI. Philotas and Parmenio put to Death
XXVIL Treatment of Amyntas.The Atiaspians
XXVIII Alexander erosses the Hindu-Koosh
XXIX. Conquest of Bactria, and Pursuit of Bessus across the Oxus
XXX. Capture of Bessus. Exploits in Sogdiana
BOOK IV,
1. Rebellion ofthe Sogdianians
I, Capture of Five Cities in Two Days.
IL, Storming of Cyropolis.—Revolt ofthe Seythians
IV. Defeat ofthe Seythians beyond the Tanais
V. Spitamenes destroys a Macedonian Detachment
VI Spitamenes driven into the Desert
VIL, Treatment of Bessus
VIII, The Murder of Clitus
IX, Alexander’ grief for Clitus
X. Dispute between Callisthenes and Anaxarchus
XI. Callisthenes Opposes the Proposal to honour Alexander by Prostration
XII, Callisthenes refuses to Prostrate himself”
XIII, Conspiracy of the Pages
XIV, Execution of Callisthenes and Hermolaiis
XV. Alliance with the Seythians and Chorasmians
XVI. Subjugation of Sogdiana.—Revolt of Spitamenes
XVII. Defeat and Death of Spitamenes
XVIIL Oxyartes Besieged in the Sogdian Rock
XIX. Alexander Captures the Rock and Marries Roxana
XX. Magnanimous Treatment of the Family of Darius
XXI. Capture of the Rock of Chorienes
XXII Alexander reaches the River Cabul, and Receives the Homage of Taxiles


Page 6, Instance 0, Class: Text
XXIV. Operations against the Aspasians
XXV. Defeat of the Aspasians.—The Assacenians and Guraeans Attacked
XXVI. Siege of Massaga
XXVIL Sieges of Massaga and Ora
XXVIII Captute of Bazira.—Advance to the Rock of Aornus,

XXIX. Siege of Aomus

XXX. Capture of Aomus.—Arrival atthe Indus

BOOK V.

I. Alexander at Nysa

ML Alexander at Nysa

IL. Incredulity of Eratosthenes. Passage of the Indus

IV. Digression about India

V. Mountains and Rivers of Asia

VI. General Description of India

VIL, Method of Bridging Rivers

VIII, March from the Indus to the Hydaspes

IX, Porus obstructs Alexander's Passage

X. Alexander and Porus at the Hydaspes

XI. Alexander's Stratagem to get across

XII, Passage of the Hydaspes

XIIL Passage of the Hy daspes.

XIV, The Battle atthe Hydaspes

XV. Arrangements of Porus

XVI Alexander's Tacties

XVIL Defeat of Porus

XVII. Losses of the Combatants. Porus Surrenders

XIX. Alliance with Porus.—Death of Bucephalas

XX. Conquest of the Glausians. Embassy from Abisares—Passage of th
Acesines

XXI. Advance beyond the Hydraotes

XXII. Invasion of the Land of the Cathaeans

XXIIL Assault upon Sangala

XXIV. Capture of Sangala

XXV. The Army refuses to Advance.—Alexander’s Speech to the Officers

XXVI. Alexander's Speech (continued)

XXVI. The Answer of Coenus

XXVIII Alexander resolves to Return

XXIX. Alexander recrosses the Hydraotes and Acesines


Page 7, Instance 0, Class: Text
I. Preparations for a Voyage down the Indus
T. Voyage down the Hydaspes
IL. Voyage down the Hydaspes (continued)
IV. Voyage down the Hydaspes into the Acesines
V. Voyage down the Acesines
VI. Campaign against the Mallians
VIL. Campaign against the Mallians (continued)
VIII, Defeat of the Mallians atthe river Hydraotes
IX, Storming of the Mallian Stronghold
X. Alexander dangerously Wounded
XI. Alexander Wounded
XII, Anxiety of the Soldiers about Alexander
XII Joy of the Soldiers at Alexander's Recovery
XIV. Voyage down the Hydraotes and Acesines into the Indus,
XV. Voyage down the Indus tothe Land of Musicanus
XVI. Campaign against Oxyeanus and Sambus
XVIL. Musicanus Executed.— Capture of Patala
XVIIL Voyage down the Indus
XIX. Voyage down the Indus into the Sea
XX. Exploration ofthe Mouths ofthe Indus
XXI. Campaign against the Oritians
XXII March through the Desert of Gadrosia
XXIIL March through the Desert of Gadrosia
XXIV. March through Gadrosia
XXV. Sulerings of the Aemy
XXVI. Alexander's Magnanimous Conduct
XXVIL. March through Carmania.Punishment of Viceroys
XXVIII Alexander in Carmania
XXIX. Alexander in Persis. Tomb of Cyrus Repaired
XXX. Peucestas appointed Viceroy of Persis
BOOK VIL.
I. Alexander's Plans.—The Indian Philosophers
IL Alexander's Dealings with the Indian Sages
IL, Self-sactfice ofthe Indian Calanus
IV. Marriages between Macedonians and Persians
V. The Soldiers Rewarded
VI. An Amy of Asiatics Trained under the Macedonian Discipline
VIL, Navigation of the Tigres
VIII, The Macedonians Offended at Alexander
IX, Alexander's Speech
X. Alexander’s Speech (continued)


Page 8, Instance 0, Class: Text
AM Ren MHousang Maceconians sent Home with raterus. Lisputes between
“Antipater and Olympias " a
XIIL The Nisaean Plain.—The Amazons 333
XIV, Death of Hephaestion 395
XV. Subjugation of the Cossaeans.—Embassies from Distant Nations 398
XVI. Exploration of the Caspian.—The Chaldaean Soothsayers 400
XVIL The Advice of the Chaldees rejected 402
XVIIL Predictions of Alexander's Death 408
XIX. Embassies from Greece —Fleet prepared for Invading Arabia 406
XX. Description of Arabia. Voyage of Nearchus 408
XXI. Description of the Euphrates and the Pallacopas, 4
XXII. An Omen of Alexander's Approaching Death a2
XXIIL The Army Recruited from the Persians.—Hephaestion’s Memory Honoured 414
XXIV. Another Omen of Alexander's Death alr
XXV. Alexander Seized with Fever 418
XXVI. Alexander's Death 420
XXVIL Rumour that Alexander was Poisoned 421
XXVIIL Character of Alexander an
XXIX. Apology for Alexander’s Errors 44
XXX. Eulogy of Alexander 42s
Index of Proper Names 429
ERRATA.
Page 3. Four lines from the bottom, for Anab.v. 1, ead v. 5,1
Page §. Note 14, for Diod., xix. 93, 94; read xvi. 98, 94. Note 16, for Diod., xvi. 85;
read xvii 4,
Page 48. For Onares read Omares.
Page 108. (Note) for Zeph. i. 2; read 11
Page 116. (Note) for Paradise Lost, vii. 18; read i. 446.


Page 8, Instance 1, Class: Text
LIFE AND WRITINGS OF ARRIAN.
ALL we know of Arrian is derived from the notice of him in the Bibliotheca of Photius, who
Was Patriarch of Constantinople in the ninth century, and from a few incidental references in
his own writings. We lear from Suidas that Dion Cassius wrote a biography of Arrian; but
this work is not extant. Flavius Arrianus was born near the end of the frst century of the
‘Christian era, at Nicomedia, the capital of Bithynia. He became a pupil of the famous Stoic
philosopher Epictetus, and afterwards went to Athens, where he received the surname of the
“younger Xenophon,” from the fact that he occupied the same relation to Epictetus as
“Xenophon did to Socrates.’ Not only was he called Xenophon by others, but he cals himself
so in Cynegeticus (v. 6); and in Periplus (xii. 5; xxv. 1), he distinguishes Xenophon by the
‘addition she elder. Lucian (Alevander, 56) calls Atrian simply Xenophon. During the stay of


Page 9, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘the emperor Hadrian at Athens, 4.b. 126, Arrian gained his friendship. He accompanied his
patron to Rome, where he received the Roman citizenship. In consequence of this, he
assumed the name of Flavius.” In the same way the Jewish historian, Josephus, had been
allowed by Vespasian and Titus to bea the imperial name Flavius.”

Photius says, that Arrian had a distinguished career in Rome, being entrusted with
various political offices, and at last reaching the supreme dignity of consul under Antoninus
Pius. Previous to this he was appointed (A.p. 132) by Hadrian, Governor of Cappadocia,
Which province was soon after invaded by the Alani, or Massagetae, whom he defeated and
expelled. When Mareus Aurelius came to the throne, Atrian withdrew into private life and
returned to his native city, Nicomedia. Here, according to Photius, he was appointed priest
to Demeter and Persephone. He died inthe reign of Marcus Aurelius.

‘The earlier literary efforts of Atrian were philosophical. After the expulsion of the
philosophers from Rome, by Domitian, Epictetus delivered his lectures at Nicopolis, in
Epirus, where itis probabie that Arvian was his pupil

I. These lectures were published by Artian, under the tile of Discourses of Epictetus, in
eight books, the frst four only of which have come down to us. He tells us himself in the
introduction to this work, that he strove as far as possible to preserve the very words of his
teacher as mementoes of his method of reasoning and dition. Gellius (xix. 1) speaks of a
fifth book ofthese Discourses.

TI, He also compiled The Enchiidion of Epictetus, an abstract of the philosophy of
Epictetus, which i till extant. This manual of the Stoic moral philosophy was very popula,
both among Pagans and Christians, for many centuries.

IIL Another work by Arrian, in twelve books, distinct from the above, is mentioned by
Photius under the tile of “Oia Exuceixov”, oF Friendly Conversations with Epictetus.
Of this only a few fragments survive.

IV. Another lost work of Arrian on the life and death of Epictetus is mentioned by
Simplicius in the beginning of his Commentary on the Enehiridion.

V. Besides editing these philosophical works, Arrian wrote many original books. By far
‘the most important of these isthe Anabasis of Alexander, or the History of Alexander the
Great's Campaigns. This is one of the most authentic and accurate of historical works
‘Though inspired with admiration for his hero, the author evinces impartiality and freedom
from hero-worship. He exhibits great literary acuteness in the choice of his authorities and
in sifting evidence. The two chief sources from which he drew his narrative were the
histories written by Prolemy, son of Lagus, and Aristobulus, son of Aristobulus, both of
whom were officers in Alexander's army. Other authorities quoted by Arrian himself were:
—Bratosthenes, Megasthenes, Nearchus, Aristus, and Asclepiades. He also made use of
‘Alexander's letters, which he mentions five times:* only once, however, quoting the exact
words of the writer. The last authority which he mentions, is the Royal Diary kept by
Eumenes, of Cardia, the private seereiary of Philip as well as of Alexander, and by the
historian Diodotus, of Erythrae. It is used by Arrian only once,” as itis by Plutarch."

VL. The work’ named Indica, is a description of India, and was usually united in
manuscripts with the Anabasis, as an eighth book. Though it may be looked upon as a
supplement to the Anabasis, Arran often refers in the one work to the other.” From this we
may infer that the author wished the Indica to be considered a distinct book from the
‘Anabasis; and from the remark in Anab. v. 1, itis clear that it was composed ater the
“Anabasis, This book is wrtten in the Tonic dialect, like the History of Herodotus and the
Indica of Ctesias. The latter untrustworthy book Arrian wished to supplant by is own
narrative, principally based on the works of Megasthenes and Nearchus.

VIL. Photius mentions among Atran’s historical works:—The Events after Alexander, in
ten books, which gives the history of Alexander's successors. Photius (cod. 92) has
preserved many extracts from this work.

VIII. Bithynica in eight books, a work often quoted by Eustathius in his commentaries to
the [liad and to Dinnvene Perieeetes tn ceoard en the contents of thie hook Photime (end


Page 10, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘as far as the death of the last Nicomedes, who at his death bequeathed his kingdom to the
Romans, who had never been ruled by a king after the expulsion of Tarquin.”

IX. Parthica, in seventeen books. See Photius (cod. $8)

X- History of the Alani. See Photius (cod. 93). Only fragments of this and the Parthica

XL Besides the large works, we learn fom Photius (cod. 93) that Arian wrote the
biographies of the Corinthian Timoleon and of the Syracusan Dion. Lucian (Alex. 2), also
states that he wrote the life of Tilliborus, the notorious robber of Asia Minor.

XIL. A valuable geographical work by Atrian has come down to us, called “Tlepikove
ovtov Evécivov,” a description of a voyage round the coasts of the Euxine. This naval
expedition was executed by him as Governor of Cappadocia. The Alani, or, Albani of the
East, tribe related to the Massagetae, were threatening to invade his province, and he made
this voyage with a view of fortifying the most important strategie points on the coast. From
section 26 of the Periplus we find that this voyage must have taken place about the year 131
(or 132 Ap; forthe death of King Cotys IL, noticed in that passage as just dead, is proved by §
Bockh’s investigations to have occurred in 131 a.p. Two other geographical works, The
Periplus of the Red Sea and The Periplus of the Euxine, formerly aseribed to Arrian, are
‘proved to belong to a later date

XIII. A work on Tactics, composed 137 4.0. In many parts this book agrees nearly
verbally with the larger work of Aetian on the same subject; but Leo Tacticus (vii. 85)
expressly mentions the two works as distinct.

XIV. An Array of Bale against the Alani, ia fragment discovered in the seventeenth
century in the Description of his Batles with the Alani, who invaded his province, probably
137 a... as Aerian had previously feared.”

XV-A small work by Arrian on the Chase, forms a supplement to Xenophon’s book on
the same subject. Itis entitled Cynegeticus of Arvian or the second Xenophon the Athenian.

‘The best editions of the Anabasis are the following:—The editio princeps by Trincavelli,
Venice, 1535; Gerbel, Strassburg, 1539; Henri Estienne, 1575; N. Blancardus, Amsterdam,
1668; J. Gronovius, Leyden, 1704; G. Raphelius, Amsterdam, 1757; A.'C. Borkeck,
Lemgovia, 1792; F. Schmieder, Leipzig, 1798; Tauehnitz edition, Leipzig, 1818; J. 0.
Ellendt, Konigsberg, 1832; C. W. Kriger, Berlin, 1835; F. Dubner, Paris, 1846; K. Abicht,
Leipzig, 1871

ARRIAN'S PREFACE.
1 wave admaitted into my nesrative en airictiy authentic all the etetemente relatine to.


Page 10, Instance 1, Class: Text
ARRIAN'S PREFACE.
I suave admitted into my narrative as strictly authentic all the statements relating to
‘Alexander and Philip which Ptolemy, son of Lagus,'' and Aristobulus, son of Aristobulus,!?
agree in making; and from those statements which differ I have selected that which appears
to me the more credible and at the same time the more deserving of record. Different
authors have given different accounts of Alexander's life; and there is no one about whom
more have written, or more at variance with each other. But in my opinion the narratives of
Piolemy and Aristobulus are more worthy of eredit than the rest; Aristobulus, because he
served under king Alexander in his expedition, and Ptolemy, not only because he
accompanied Alexander in his expedition, but also because he was himself a king
afterwards, and falsification of facts would have been more disgraceful to him than to any
‘other man, Moreover, they are both more worthy of eredit, because they compiled their
histories after Alexander's death, when neither compulsion was used nor reward offered
them to write anything different from what really occurred. Some statements made by other


Page 11, Instance 0, Class: Text
BOOK I.
CHAPTER |

Deatit oF Phntar aXD ACCESSION OF ALEXANDER.—His WARS WITHTHE THRACIANS.

Ir is said that Philip died!* when Pythodemus was archon at Athens, and that hs son
‘Alexander, being then about twenty years of age, marched into Peloponnesus!” as soon as °
hhe had secured the regal power. There he assembled all the Greeks who were within the
limits of Peloponnesus,"* and asked from them the supreme command of the expedition
against the Persians, an office which they had already conferred upon Philip. He reveived
‘the honour which he asked from all except the Lacedaemonians," who replied that it was an
hereditary custom of theits, not to follow others but to lead them, The Athenians also
attempted to bring about some political change; but they were so alarmed at the very
approach of Alexander, that they conceded to him even more ample public honours than
‘those which had been bestowed upon Philip He then returned into Macedonia and busied
himself in preparing for the expedition into Asia,

However, at the approach of spring (nc. 335), he marched towards Thrace, into the
lands of the Tribalians and Ilyrians,"' because he ascertained that these nations were
meditating a change of policy; and at the same time, as they were lying on his frontier, he
‘thought it imexpedient, when he was about to start on a campaign so far away from his own
land, to leave them behind him without being entirely subjugated. Setting out then from!
Amphipolis, he invaded the land of the people who were called independent Thracians,””
keeping the city of Philippi and mount Orbelus on the left. Crossing the iver Nessus,” they
say he arrived at mount Haemus” on the tenth day. Here, along the defiles up the ascent to
the mountain, he was met by many of the traders equipped with arms, as well as by the
independent Thracians, who had made preparations to check the further advance of his
expedition by seizing the summit of the Haemus, along which was the route forthe passage
of his army. They had collected their waggons, and placed them in front of them, not only
using them as a rampart from which they might defend themselves, in ease they should be
forced back, but also intending to let them loose upon the phalanx of the Macedonians,
Where the mountain was most precipitous, if they tried to ascend. They had come to the
conelusion®® thatthe denser the phalanx was with which the waggons rushing down came
into collision, the more easily would they scatter it by the violence of thei fall upon it

But Alexander formed a plan by which he might eross the mountain with the least
danger possible; and since he was resolved to run all risks, knowing that there were no
means of passing elsewhere, he ordered the heavy-armed soldiers, a8 soon as the waggons
‘began to rush down the declivty, to open ther ranks, and directed that those whom the road
was sufficiently wide to permit to do so should stand apart, so thatthe waggons might roll!
‘through the eap: but that those who were hemmed in on all sides should either stoop down


Page 11, Instance 1, Class: Text
writers I have incorporated in my narrative, because they seemed to me worthy of mention
and not altogether improbable; but I have given them merely as reports of Alexander's
proceedings. And if any man wonders why, afler so many other men have written of
‘Alexander, the compilation of this history came into my mind, after perusing!” the
narratives ofall the rest, let him read this of mine, and then wonder (if he ean),


Page 12, Instance 0, Class: Text
close fighting, easily drove away from their position men who were light-armed and badly
‘equipped barbarians. The consequence was, they no longer waited to receive Alexander
marching against them from the left, but casting away their arms they fled down the
mountain as each man best could. About 1,500 of them were killed: but only a few were
taken prisoners on account of their swiftness of foot and acquaintance with the country.
However, all the women who were accompanying them were captured, as were also their
children and all their booty
CHAPTER IL
Bartur wine THE TRIALLIANS,

ALEXANDER sent the booty away southward to the cities on the seashore,” entrusting to
Lysanias and Philotas”* the duty of setting it up forsale. But he himself erossed the summit,
and advancing through the Haemus into the land ofthe Triballians, he arrived atthe river
Lyginus This river is distant from the Ister three days’ march to one intending to go to
the Haemus. Syrmus, king of the Tiballians, hearing of Alexander's expedition long before,
had sent the women and children of the nation on in advance tothe Ister, ordering them to
‘pass over into one ofthe islands in that river, the name of which was Peuce.” To this island
also the Thracians, whose terttories were conterminous with those of the Triballians, had
fled together for refuge at the approach of Alexander. Syrmus himself likewise,
accompanied by his train, had fled for refuge to the same place. But the main body of the
‘Triballians fled back tothe river, fom which Alexander had started the day before.

When he heard oftheir starting, he wheeled round again, and, marching against them,
surprised them just as they were encamping. And those who were surprised drew themselves!
up in battle aay in a woody glen along the bank of the river. Alexander drew out his
‘phalanx into a deep column, and le it on in person. He also ordered the archers and slingers,
to run forward and discharge arrows and stones atthe barbarians, hoping to provoke them
by this to come out of the woody glen into the ground unencumbered with trees. When they
were within reach of the missles, and were struck by them, they rushed out against the
archers, who were undefended by shields, with the purpose of fighting them hand-to-hand,
But when Alexander had drawn them thus out of the woody glen, he ordered Philotas to take
the cavalry which came from upper Macedonia, and to charge their right wing, where they
hhad advanced furthest in ther sally. He also commanded Heraclides and Sopolis to lead on
the cavalry which came from Botiaea” and Amphipolis against the left wing: while he
himself extended the phalanx of infantry and theres ofthe horse infront of the phalanx and
led them against the enemy's centre. And indeed as long as there was only skirmishing on
both sides, the Trballians did not get the worst of it; but as soon as the phalanx in dense
array attacked them with vigour, and the cavalry fell upon them in various quarters, no
longer merely strikine them with the javelin but ouchine them with their very horses. then


Page 12, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘together or even fall flat on the ground, and lock their shields compactly together, so that the
\waugons rushing down upon them, and in all probability by thir very impetus leaping over
them, might pass on without injuring them. And it turmed out just as Alexander had
conjectured and exhorted. For some of the men made gaps inthe phalanx, and others locked
their shields together The waggons rolled over the shicis without doing much injury, not
single man being killed under them. Then the Macedonians regained their courage,
inasmuch as the Wagons, which they had excessively dreaded, had inflicted no damage
upon them. With a loud ery they assaulted the Thracians. Alexander ordered his archers to
march fom the Fight wing in font ofthe rst ofthe phan, because there the passage Was
easier, and to shoot atthe Thracians whete they advanced. He himself took his own guard,
the shield-bearing infantry and the Agrianians.* and led them to the lft. Then the archers
shot atthe Thracians who sallied forward, and repulsed them; and the phalanx, coming to
lose fighting, easily drove away from their postion men who were light-armed and badly
equipped barbarians. The consequence was, they no longer waited to receive Alexander
marching against them fiom the left, but casting away their arms they fled down the
mountain as each man best could. About 1,500 of them were killed: but only @ few were
taken prisoners on account of their swiftness of foot and acquaintance with the country
However, all the women who were accompanying them were captured, as were also their
children and all their booty.


Page 13, Instance 0, Class: Text
nein pursuit. | oemy says, Har of the Macecomians Memselves eleven Horsemen and abour

forty foot soidiers were Killed
CHAPTER IIL
ALEXANDER AT THE DaNURE AND IN THE COUNTRY OF THE GeTAE
‘Ox the third day after the battle, Alexander reached the river Ister, which isthe largest ofall
the rivers in Europe, traverses a very great tract of country, and separates very warlike
nations. Most ofthese belong to the Celtic race," in whose territory the sources ofthe river
take their rise. OF these nations the remotest ae the Quadi* and Marcomanni; then the
lazygianns,” a branch of the Sauromatians™; then the Getae,” who hold the doctrine of |
immortality; then the main body of the Sarmatians; and, lastly, the Seythians.*” whose land
stretches as far as the outlets of the river, where through five mouths it discharges its water
into the Euxine Sea."' Here Alexander found some ships of war which had come to him
from Byzantium, through the Euxine Sea and up the river. Filling these with archers and
hheavy-armed troops, he sailed to the island to which the Triballians and Thracians had fled
for refuge. He tried to force a landing: but the barbarians came to meet him at the brink of
the river, where the ships were making the assault. But these were only few in number, and
the army in them small. The shores of the island, also, were in most places too steep and
precipitous for landing, and the current ofthe river alongside it, being, as it were, shut up
into a narrow channel by the nearness of the banks, was rapid and exceedingly difficult to
stem
‘Alexander therefore led back his ships, and determined to eross the Ister and march
against the Getae, who dwelt on the other side of that river; for he observed that many of
‘them had collected on the bank ofthe river forthe purpose of barring his way, if he should
cross. There were of them about 4,000 cavalry and mote than 10,000 infantry. At the same |
time a strong desire seized him to advance beyond the Ister. He therefore went on board the
fleet himself. He also filled with hay the hides which served them as tent-coverings, and
collected from the country around all the boats made from single trunks of tees. Of these
there was a great abundance, because the people who dwell near the Ister use them for
fishing inthe river, sometimes also for journeying to each other for traffic up the river; and
most of them earry on piracy with them. Having collected as many of these as he could,
upon them he conveyed across as many of his soldiers as was possible in such a fashion
‘Those who erossed with Alexander amounted in number to. 1,500 cavalry and 4,000
infant.
CHAPTER IV.

AurxanDrR DestRovs THE City oF Th Grtat.—Tur Ammassapors OF Tue Crt
‘Tuny crossed over by night 10 a spot where the com stood high; and in this way they
reached the bank more secretly. At the approach of dawn Alexander led his men through the
field of standing corn, ordering the infantry to lean upon the orn with their pikes held
‘ransversely, and thus to advance into the untilled ground. As long as the phalanx was
advancing through the standing corn, the cavalry followed: but when they marched out of


Page 13, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘at length they tumed and fled through the woody glen to the river. Three thousand were
slain in the flight; few of them were taken prisoners, both because there was a dense wood
in front of the river, and the approach of night deprived the Macedonians of eertainty in
their pursuit. Ptolemy says, that of the Macedonians themselves eleven horsemen and about
forty oot soldiers were Killed


Page 13, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHAPTER IV.

ALEXANDER Distnoys Tif CiTY oF TE GrrAE.—TliF Aamassabons oF Tue CELzS,
“Tuey exossed over by night ta spot where the com stood high: and in this way they
reached the bank more secretly. At the approach of dawn Alexander led his men through the
field of standing cor, ordering te infantry to lean upon the com with their pikes held
transversely, and thus to advance into the untilled ground. As long as the phalanx was
advancing through the standing com, the cavalry followed: but when they marched out of
the tilled land, Alexander himself led the horse round to the sight wing, and commanded
‘Nicanor to lead the phalanx in a square. The Getae didnot even sustain the first charge of


Page 14, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘crossed the Ister, the largest of rivers, in a single night, without throwing a bridge over the
stream, Terrible to them also was the closely-locked order of the phalanx, and violent the
charge of the cavalry. At first they fled for refuge into ther city, which was distant about a
parasang™ from the Ister; but when they saw that Alexander was leading his. phalanx
Carefully along the river, to prevent his infantry being anywhere surrounded by the Getae
lying in ambush; whereas he was leading his cavalry straight on, they again abandoned the
city, because it was badly fortified. They carried off as many of their Women and children as
their horses could carry, and betook themselves into the steppes, ina direction which led as
far as possible from the river. Alexander took the city and all the booty which the Getae left
‘behind. This he gave to Meleager" and Philip* to carry off. After razing the ety to the
‘ground, he offered sacrifice upon the bank of the river, to Zeus the preserver, to Heracles,”
and to Ister himself, because he had allowed him to cross; and while it was stil day he
brought all his men back safe to the camp.

‘There ambassadors eame to him from Syrmus, king of the Triballians, and from the
‘other independent nations dwelling near the Ister. Some even arrived from the Celts who
dwelt near the Tonian gult* These people are of great stature, and of a haughty disposition,
All the envoys said that they had come to seek Alexander's friendship. To all of them he
zgave pledges of amity, and received pledges from them in return. He then asked the Celts
‘what thing in the world caused them special alarm, expecting that his own great fame had
reached the Celts and had penetrated still further, and that they would say that they feared
him most of all things. But the answer of the Celts turned out quite contrary to his
‘expectation; for, as they dwelt so faraway from Alexander, inhabiting distets difficult of
access, and as they saw he was about t0 set out in another direction, they said they were
afraid that the sky would some time or other fall down upon them. These men also he sent
back, calling them friends, and ranking them as allies, making the remark that the Celts
‘were braggars.°

CHAPTER V.
Rrvotr oF Cuitus axp GLAveTss


Page 14, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER V.
Rrvotr oF Cuitus axp GLAveTss

Hr then advanced into the land of the Agrianians and Paconians,” where messengers
reached him, who reported that Clitus, son of Bardylis! had revolted, and that Glaueias,”? 19
king of the Taulantians.* had gone over to him. They also reported thatthe Autaratians™*
intended to attack him on his way. He accordingly resolved to commence his march without
delay. But Langarus, king ofthe Agrianians, who, in the lifetime of Philip, had been an open
and avowed friend of Alexander, and had gone on an embassy to him in his private capacity,

at that time also came to him with the finest and best armed of the shield-bearing troops,
Which he Kept as a body-guard. When this man heard that Alexander was inquiring who the
‘Autariatians were, and what was the number of their men, he said that he need take no
account of them, since they were the least warlike of the tribes of that district; and that he
Would himself make an ineoad into their land, so that they might have too much occupation
about their own affairs to attack others. Accordingly, at Alexander's order, he made an
attack upon them; and not only did he attack them, but he swept ther land clean of captives,
and booty. Thus the Autariatians were indeed occupied with their own affairs. Langarus was
rewarded by Alexander with the greatest honours, and received from him the gifts which
were considered most valuable in the eyes of the King of the Macedonians. Alexander also
‘promised to give him his sister Cyna’® in marriage when he arrived at Pella. But Langarus 20
fell ill and died on his return home.


Page 15, Instance 0, Class: Text
Adler this, Alexander marched’ along the tiver Erigon, and proceeded’ to the city of
Pelium:‘* for Clitus had seized this city, as it was the strongest in the country. When
‘Alexander arrived at this place, and had encamped near the river Eordaicus,” he resolved to
make an assault upon the wall the next day. But Clitus held the mountains which encircled
the city, and commanded it from their height; moreover, they were covered with dense
thickets. His intention was to fall upon the Macedonians from al sides, if they assaulted the
city. But Glaucias, king of the Taulantian, had not yet joined him. Alexander, however, led
his forees towards the ety; and the enemy, after sacrificing three boys, an equal number of
fis, and thee black rams, sallied forth forthe purpose of receiving the Macedonians in a
hhand-to-hand conflict. But as soon as they came to close quarters, they left the positions
Which they had occupied, strong as they were in such haste that even their sacrificial
Victims were captured stil lying onthe ground,

‘On this day he shut them up in the ety, and encamping near the wall, he resolved to
intercept them by a circumvallation; but on the next day Gilaucias, king of the Taulantians,
arrived with a great force. Then, indeed, Alexander gave up the hope of capturing the city
With his present force, since many walike troops had fled for refuge into it, and Glaucias
With his large army would be likely to follow him up closely if he assailed the wall, But he
sent Philotas on a foraging expedition, with the beasts of burden from the camp and a
sulicient body’ of eavalry to serve as a guard. When Glaucias heard of the expedition of
Philotas he marched out to meet him, and seized the mountains which surrounded the plan,
from which Philotas intended to procure forage. As soon as Alexander was informed that his
cavalry and beasts of burden would be in danger if night overtook them, taking the shield
‘bearing troops." the archers, the Agrianians, and about four hundred cavalry, he went with
all speed to ther aid, The rest ofthe army he left behind near the city to prevent the citizens
from hastening forth to form a junction with Glaueias (as they would have done), if all the
Macedonian army had withdrawn, Directly Glaucias perceived that Alexander was
advancing, he evacuated the mountains, and Philotas and his forees returned to the camp in
safety, But Clitus and Glaucias still imagined that they had caught Alexander in a
disadvantageous position; for they were occupying the mountains, which commanded the
plain by their height, witha large body of cavalry, javelin-throwers, and slingers, besides a
considerable number of heavy-armed infantry. Moreover, the men who had been
beleaguered in the city were expected to pursue the Macedonians closely if they made a
retreat. The ground also through which Alexander had to march was evidently narrow and
covered with wood; on one side it was hemmed in by a river, and on the other there was a
very lofty and eragay mountain, so that there would not be room for the army to pass, even
if only four shield-bearers marched abreast

CHAPTER VI.
Derear or Curtus aN Gaver.
‘Tue Alexander drew up his army in such a way that the depth of the phalanx was 120 men;
and stationing 200 cavalry on each wing, he ordered them to preserve silence, in order to
receive the word of command quickly. Accordingly he gave the signal to the heavy-armed
infantry inthe first place to hold their spears erect, and then to couch them at the concerted


Page 15, Instance 1, Class: Text
NM EMABEIEIN
Derear oF Curtus aNp Gtavcus.
‘Tue Alexander drew up his army in such a way thatthe depth ofthe phalanx was 120 men;
and stationing 200 cavalry on each wing, he ordered them to preserve silence, in order to
receive the word of command quickly. Accordingly he gave the signal to the heavy-armed
infantry inthe first place to hold their spears erect, and then to couch them at the concerted
sign; at one time to incline their spears to the right, closely locked together, and at another
time towards the let. He then set the phalanx itself into quick motion forward, and marched
it towards the wings, now to the right, and then to the left. After thus arranging and re-
arranging his army many times very rapidly, he at last formed his phalanx into a sort of
wedge, and led it towards the left against the enemy, who had long been in a state of
amazement at seeing both the order and the rapidity of his evolutions. Consequently they
did not sustain Alexander's attack, but quitted the first ridges of the mountain. Upon this,


Page 16, Instance 0, Class: Text
aoe eae eeeaiceceee eee ie ae ae ced and make @ claticr wits er
spears upon their shields; and the Taulantians, being still more alarmed atthe noise, led their.
army back tothe city with all speed,

‘As Alexander saw only a few of the enemy still occupying a ridge, along which lay his 2
route, he ordered his body-guards and personal companions to take theie shields, mount
‘their horses, and ride tothe hill; and when they reached i, if those who had occupied the
position awaited them, he said that half of them were to leap from their horses, and to fight
as footsoldiers, being mingled with the cavalry. But when the enemy saw Alexander's
advanee, they quitted the hill and retreated to the mountains in both directions. Then
‘Alexander, with his companions, seized the hill, and sent for the Agrianians and archers,
Who numbered 2,000. He also ordered the shield-bearing guards to cross the river, and after
them the regiments of Macedonian infantry, with instructions that, as soon as they had
succeeded in crossing, they should draw out in rank towards the left, so that the phalanx of
men crossing might appear compact at once. He himself, in the vanguard, was all the time
‘observing from the ridge the enemy's advance. They, seeing the force crossing the river,
marched down the mountains to meet them, withthe purpose of attacking Alexander's rear
in its retreat. But, as they were just drawing near, Alexander rushed forth with his own
division, and the phalanx raised the battle-cry, as if about to advance through the river.
When the enemy saw all the Macedonians marching against them, they turned and fled
Upon this, Alexander led the Agrianians and archers at full speed towards the river, and
succeeded in being himself the fist man to cross it. But when he saw the enemy pressing 2
upon the men in the tear, he stationed his engines of war upon the bank, and ordered the
engineers to shoot from them as far forward as possible all sorts of projectiles which are
usually shot from military engines.® He directed the archers, who had also entered the
water, 10 shoot their arrows from the middle of the river. But Glaucias durst not advance
Within range of the missiles: so that the Macedonians passed over in such safety, that not
‘one of them lost his life in the retreat.

‘Three days alter this, Alexander discovered that Clitus and Glaucias lay carelessly
encamped; that neither were their sentinels on guard in military order, nor had they
protected themselves with a rampart or ditch, as ithey imagined he had withdrawn through
fear; and that they had extended ther line to a disadvantageous length. He therefore crossed
the river again secretly, atthe approach of night, leading with him the shield-bearing guards,
the Agrianians, the archers, and the brigades of Perdiceas™ and Coenus," after having given
‘orders forthe rest of the army to follow. As soon as he saw a favourable opportunity forthe 2
attack, without waiting for all to be present, he despatched the archers and Agvianians
against the foe. These, being arranged in phalanx, fell unawares with the most furious
charge upon their flank, where they were likely to come into conflict with their weakest
point, and slew some of them still in their beds, others being easily caught in their fight
‘Accordingly, many were there eaptured and killed, as were many also in the disorderly and
panic-stricken retreat which ensued, Not a few, moreover, were taken prisoners. Alexander
kept up the pursuit as far as the Taulantian mountains; and as many of them as escaped,
preserved ther lives by throwing away their arms, Clitus first fled for refuge into the city,
Which, however, he set on fire, and withdrew to Glaucias, in the land ofthe Taulantians,

CHAPTER VIL
Revour oF Tunes (September, n.c. 335).
Wn these events were occurring, some of the exiles who had been banished from Thebes,
‘coming to the city by night, and being brought in by some of the citizens, in order to effect a


Page 17, Instance 0, Class: Text
attempt was ebout to be made. Then entering the public assently, they incited the Thebans 2
to revolt from Alexander, holding out to them as pretexts the ancient and glorious words,
liberty and freedom of speech, and urging them now at last to rid themselves of the heavy
yoke of the Macedonians. By stoutly maintaining that Alexander had been Killed in Illyria
‘they gained more power in persuading the multitude: for this report was prevalent, and for
many reasons it gained credit, both because he had been absent a long time, and because no
news had arrived from him. Accordingly, as is usual in such cases, not knowing the facts,
‘each man conjectured what was most pleasing to himself

When Alexander heard what was being done at Thebes, he thought it was a movement
not at allo be slighted, inasmuch as he had for long time suspected the city of Athens and
deemed the audacious action of the Thebans no trivial matter, ifthe Lacedaemonians, who
hnad long been disaffected in ther felings to him, and the Aetolians and certain other States,
in the Peloponnese, who were not fim in their allegiance to him, should take part with the
‘Thebans in their revolutionary effort. He therefore led his army through Eordaea and
Elimiotis and along the peaks of Stymphaea and Paravaea,” and on the seventh day
arrived at Pina” in Thessaly. Starting thence, he entered Bocotia on the sixth day; so that
the Thebans did not learn that he had passed south of Thermopylae, until he’ was at
‘Onchestus”? with the whole of his army. Even then the authors of the revolt asserted that
Antipater’s army had arrived out of Macedonia, stoutly affirming that Alexander himself
was dead, and being very angry with those who announced that it was Alexander himself
who was advancing.” For they said it mast be another Alexander, the son of Aéropus, who
was coming.” On the following day Alexander set out from Onchestus, and advanced
towards the city along the territory consecrated to lolai:”* where indeed he encamped, in
‘order 0 give the Thebans further time to repent of their evil resolutions and to send an
embassy 10 him. But so far were they from showing any sign of wishing to come to an
accommodation, that their cavalry and a large body of light-armed infantry sallied forth
from the city as far as the camp, and, skirmishing with the Macedonian outpost, slew a few
of their men. Alexander hereupon sent forth a party of his light-armed infantry and archers
to repel their sortie; and these men repelled them with ease, just a they were approaching
the very camp. The next day he took the whole of his army and marched round towards the
‘gate which led to Eleutherae and Attica. But not even then did he assault the wall itself, but
encamped not far away from the Cadmea, in order that succour might be at hand to the
Macedonians who were oveupying tha citadel. For the Thebans had blockaded the Cadmea
with a double stockade and were guarding it, so that no one from without might be able to
tive succour to those who were beleaguered, and that the garison might not be able, by
making a sally, do them any injury, when they were attacking the enemy outside. But
‘Alexander remained encamped near the Cadmea, for he still wished rather to come to
friendly terms with the Thebans than to come to a contest with them." Then those of the
‘Thebans who knew what was for the best interest of the commonwealth were eager 10 20
‘out to Alexander and obtain pardon for the commonalty of Thebes for thei revolt; but the
exiles and those who had summoned them home Kept on inciting the populace to war by
‘every means in their power, since they despaired of obtaining for themselves any indulgence
from Alexander, especially as some of them were also Boeotarchs.”” However not even for
this did Alexander assault the ety

CHAPTER VIIL


Page 18, Instance 0, Class: Text
first to assault the stockade, and, having made a breach in it, fell upon the advanced guard of
the Thebans.” Amyntas,” son of Andromenes, followed Perdiecas, because he had been
stationed with him. This general also of his own accord led on his brigade when he saw that
Perdiceas had advanced within the stockade. When Alexander saw this, he led on the rest of
his army, fearing that unsupported they might be intercepted by the Thebans and be in
danger of destruction. He gave instructions tothe archers and Agrianians to rush within the
stockade, but he still retained the guards and shield-bearing troops outside. Then indeed
Perdicea, after forcing his way within the second stockade, ell there wounded with a dart,
and was carried back grievously injured to the camp, where he was with difficulty cured of
his wound. However the men of Perdiceas, in company withthe archers sent by Alexander,
fell upon the Thebans and shut them up in the hollow way leading to the temple of Heracles,
and followed them in ther retreat as far asthe temple itself. The Thebans, having wheeled
round, again advanced from that position with a shout, and put the Macedonians to flight.
Eurybotas the Cretan, the captain of the archers, fell with about seventy of his men; but the
rest fled 0 the Macedonian guard and the’ royal shield-bearing troops. Now, when
‘Alexander saw that his own men were i flight, and thatthe Thebans had broken thee ranks
in pursuit, he attacked them with his phalanx drawn up in proper order, and drove them back
within the gates. The Thebans fled in such a panie that being driven ino the city through the
gates they had not time to shut them: for the Macedonians, who were close behind the
fugitives, rushed with them within the fortifications, inasmuch asthe walls were destitute of
defenders on account of the numerous pickets in front of them. When the Macedonians had
centered the Cadmea, some of them marched out of it, in company with those who held the
fortres, into the other part of the ety opposite the temple of Amphion, but others crossing
along the walls, which were now in the possession of those who had rushed in together with
the fugitives, advanced with a run into the marketplace. Those of the Thebans who had
‘been drawn up opposite the temple of Amphion stood their ground for a short time; but
When the Macedonians under the command of Alexander were seen to be pressing hard
upon them in various directions, thei cavalry rushed through the city and salled forth into
the plain, and their infantry fled for safety as each man found it possible. Then indeed the
‘Thebans, no longer defending themselves, were slain, not so much by the Macedonians as
by the Phocians, Plataeans and other Boeotians," who by indiseriminate slaughter vented
their rage against them, Some were even attacked in the houses, having there tuned to
defend themselves from the enemy, and others were slain as they were supplicating the
protection of the gods in the temples; not even the women and children being spared"?


Page 18, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER IX,
Destruction oF Tues,
‘Tins was felt by the Greeks to be a general calamity for it struck the rest of the Greeks with
no less consternation than it did those who had themselves taken part inthe strugele, both
‘on account ofthe magnitude of the captured city and the celerity of the ation, the result of
Which was in the highest degree contrary to the expectation both of the sufferers and the
perpetrators. For the disasters which befell the Athenians in relation to Sicily, though in
regard tothe number of those who perished they brought no less misfortune tothe city, yet,
‘because their army was destroyed far away from their own land, being composed for the
most par rather of auxiliary toops than of native Athenians, and because their city itself
was left to them intact, so that afterwards they held their own in war even for along time,
‘though fighting against the Lacedaemonians and their allies, as wel a the Great King: these
disasters, I say, neither produced in the persons who were themselves involved in the
calamity an equal sensation ofthe misfortune, nor did they cause the other Greeks a similar
onsteration at the catastrophe. Again, the defeat sustained by the Athenians at


Page 19, Instance 0, Class: Text
Aegospotami” was a naval one, and the city received no other humiliation than the
‘demolition of the Long Walls the Surrender of most of her ships, and the loss of supremacy
However, they still retained their hereditary form of government, and not long. after
recovered their former power to such a degree as not only to build up the Long Walls but to
recover the rule of the sea'® and in their turn to preserve from extreme danger those very
Lacedaemonians then so formidable to them, who had come and almost obliterated their
city. Moreover, the defeat of the Lacedaemonians at Leuctra and Mantinea filled them with
consternation rather by the unexpectedness of the disaster than because of the number of
‘those who perished. And the attack made by the Boeotians and Arcadians under
Epaminondas upon the city of Sparta, even this terrified both the Lacedaemonians
‘themselves and those who participated with them in the transactions a that time,” rather by
the novelty of the sight than by the reality of the danger. The capture of the city of the
Plataeans was not a great calamity, by reason of the small number of those who were taken
in it; most of the citizens having long before escaped to Athens * Again, the capture of
Melus and Scione simply related to insular States, and rather brought disgrace to those who
perpetrated the outrages than produced great surprise among the Grecian community as" a
whole.

But the Thebans having effected their revolt suddenly and without any previous
consideration, the eapture ofthe city being brought about in so short a time and without
difficulty on the part ofthe eaptors, the slaughter, being great, as was natural, from its being
made by men of the same race who were gluttng their revenge on them for ancient injuries,
the complete enslavement ofa city which excelled among those in Greece at that time both
in power and warlike reputation, all this was attributed not without probability 10 the
avenging wrath ofthe deity. It seemed as ifthe Thebans had after a long time suffered this,
punishment for their betrayal ofthe Greeks in the Median war,” for their seizure ofthe city
‘of Plataeae during the truce, and for their complete enslavement of it, as well as forthe un-
Hellenic slaughter ofthe men who had surrendered to the Lacedaemonians, which had been
‘committed at the instigation of the Thebans; and forthe devastation of the territory in which
the Greeks had stood in batle-aray against the Medes and had repelled danger from
Greece; lastly, because by their vote they had tried to ruin the Athenians when a motion was
brought forward among the allies of the Lacedaemonians for the enslavement of Athens.”
Moreover it was reported that before the disaster many portents were sent from the deity,
Which indeed atthe time were treated with neglect, but afterwards when men called them to
remembrance they were compelled to consider that the events which occurred had been long,
before prognostcated.””

‘The settlement of Theban affairs was entrusted by Alexander tothe allies who had taken
part in the action. They resolved to occupy the Cadmea with a garrison; to raze the city to
the ground; to distribute among themselves all the terttory, except what was dedicated to
the gods; and to sell into slavery the women and children, and as many of the males as
survived, except those who were priests or priestesses, and those who were bound to Philip
‘r Alexander by the ties of hospitality or had been public agents of the Macedonians. It is
said that Alexander preserved the house and the descendants of Pindar the poet, out of
respect for his memory.” In addition to these things, the allies deereed that Orchomenus**
and Plataeae should be rebuilt and fortified

CHAPTER X.


Page 20, Instance 0, Class: Text
Eleans also received back their exiles from banishment, because they were Alexander's
adherents; and the Aetolians, each tribe for itself, sent embassies to him, begging to receive
pardon, because they also had attempted to effect a revolution, on the receipt of the report
Which had been spread by the Thebans. The Athenians also, who, atthe time when some of
‘the Thebans, escaping from the carnage, arrived at Athens, were engaged in celebrating the
Great Mysteries,” abandoned the sacred rites in great consternation, and carried their ods
and chattels from the rural districts into the eity. The people came together in public
assembly, and, on the motion of Demades, elected trom all the citizens ten ambassadors, 3
men whom they knew to be Alexander's special adherents, and sent them to signify to him,
‘though somewhat unseasonably, that the Athenian people rejoiced at his safe return from the
land of the Illyrians and Tribalians, and atthe punishment which he had inflicted upon the
‘Thebans for their rebellion. In regard to other matters he gave the embassy a courteous
reply, but wrote a letter to the people demanding the surrender of Demosthenes and
Lycurgus, as well as that of Hyperides, Polyeuctus, Chares, Charidemus, Ephialtes,
Diotimus, and Moerocles:" alleging that these men were the cause of the disaster which
befell the city at Chaeronea, and the authors of the subsequent offensive proceedings after
Philip’s death, both against himself and his father.” He also declared that they had
instigated the Thebans to revolt no less than had those of the Thebans themselves who
favoured a revolution. The Athenians, however, dd not surrender the men, but sent another
embassy to Alexander.” entreating him to remit his wrath against the persons whom he had
demanded. The king did remit his wrath against them, ether out of respect for the ety of
“Athens, or from an earnest desire to start on the expedition into Asia, not wishing to leave
‘behind him among the Greeks any cause for distrust. However, he ordered Chatidemus
alone of the men whom he had demanded as prisoners and who had not been given up, to 20
into banishment. Charidemus therefore went as an exile to King Darius in Asia.”
3
CHAPTER XI.
ALEXANDER CRossEs THE HELLESPONT AND Visits TRO.
Hoang settled these affairs, he returned into Macedonia, He then offered to the Olympian
Zeus the sacrifice which had been instituted by Archelais,"® and had been customary up to
‘that time: and he celebrated the public contest of the Olyrapic games at Aegae.!" It is said
that he also held a public contest in honour of the Muses. At this time it was reported that
the statue of Orpheus, son of Oeagrus the Thracian, which was in Piers,” sweated
incessantly." Various were the explanations of this prodigy given by the soothsayers; but
Aristander,"! a man of Telmissus, a soothsayer, bade Alexander take courage; for he said it
was evident from this that there would be much labour for the epic and lyric poets, and for
‘the writers of odes, to compose and sing about Alexander and his achievements.

(nc. 334, At the beginning of the spring he marched towards the Hellespont, entrusting
the affairs of Macedonia and Greece to Antipater. He led not much above 30,000 infantry 3
together with light-armed troops and archers, and more than 5,000 cavalry." His march
was past the lake Cercinitis,"® towards Amphipolis and the mouths of the river Strymon.
Having crossed this river he passed by the Pangacan mountain," along the road leading to
Abdera and Maronea, Grecian cities built on the coast. Thence he arrived at the river
Heebrus,"* and easily crossed it. Thence he proceeded through Pactica to the river Melas,
having erossed which he arrived at Sestus, in twenty days altogether from the time of his
starting from home. When he came to Elaeis he offered sacrifice to Protesilaus upon the
tomb of that hero, both for other reasons and because Proteslaus seemed to have been the
first of the Greeks who took part with Agamemnon in the expedition to Ilium to disembark


Page 20, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XI.
ALEXANDER CRossEs THE HELLESPONT AND Visits TRO.

Hoang settled these affairs, he returned into Macedonia, He then offered to the Olympian
Zeus the sacrifice which had been instituted by Archelais,"® and had been customary up to
‘that time: and he celebrated the public contest of the Olyrapic games at Aegae.!" It is said
that he also held a public contest in honour of the Muses. At this time it was reported that
the statue of Orpheus, son of Oeagrus the Thracian, which was in Piers,” sweated
incessantly." Various were the explanations of this prodigy given by the soothsayers; but
Aristander,"! a man of Telmissus, a soothsayer, bade Alexander take courage; for he said it
‘was evident ftom this that there would be much labour for the epic and lyric poets, and for
‘the writers of odes, to compose and sing about Alexander and his achievements.

(nc. 334, At the beginning of the spring he marched towards the Hellespont, entrusting
the affairs of Macedonia and Greece to Antipater. He led not much above 30,000 infantry
together with light-armed troops and archers, and more than 5,000 cavalry." His march
‘was past the lake Cercinitis, towards Amphipolis and the mouths of the river Strymon,
Having crossed this river he passed by the Pangacan mountain," along the road leading to
Abdera and Maronea, Grecian cities built on the coast. Thence he arrived at the river
Heebrus,"* and easily crossed it. Thence he proceeded through Pactica to the river Melas,
having erossed which he arrived at Sestus, in twenty days altogether from the time of his
starting from home. When he came to Elaeis he offered sacrifice to Protesilaus upon the
tomb of that hero, both for other reasons and because Proteslaus seemed to have been the
first of the Greeks who took part with Agamemnon in the expedition to lium to disembark
in Asia, The design of this sactfice was, that his disembarking in Asia might be more


Page 20, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘Ricans also recelved back their exiles from banishment, Decause they were Alexander's
adherents; and the Aetolians, each tribe for itself, sent embassies to him, begging to receive
pardon, because they also had attempted to effect a revolution, on the receipt of the report
Which had been spread by the Thebans. The Athenians also, who, at the time when some of
‘the Thebans, escaping from the carnage, arrived at Athens, were engaged in celebrating the
Great Mysteries,” abandoned the sacred rites in great consternation, and carried their ods
and chattels from the rural districts into the eity. The people came together in public
assembly, and, on the motion of Demades, elected from all the citizens ten ambassadors,
men whom they knew to be Alexander's special adherents, and sent them to signify to him,
‘though somewhat unseasonably, that the Athenian people rejoiced at his safe return from the
land of the Illyrians and Tribalians, and atthe punishment which he had inflicted upon the
‘Thebans for their rebellion. In regard to other matters he gave the embassy a courteous
reply, but wrote a letter to the people demanding the surrender of Demosthenes and
Lycurgus, as well as that of Hyperides, Polyeuctus, Chares, Charidemus, Ephialtes,
Diotimus, and Moerocles:" alleging that these men were the cause of the disaster which
befell the city at Chaeronea, and the authors of the subsequent offensive proceedings after
Philip’s death, both against himself and his father.” He also declared that they had
instigated the Thebans to revolt no less than had those of the Thebans themselves who
favoured a revolution. The Athenians, however, dd not surrender the men, but sent another
embassy to Alexander.” entreating him to remit his wrath against the persons whom he had
demanded. The king did remit his wrath against them, either out of respect for the city of
“Athens, or from an earnest desire to start on the expedition into Asia, not wishing to leave
‘behind him among the Greeks any cause for distrust. However, he ordered Chatidemus
alone of the men whom he had demanded as prisoners and who had not been given up, to 20
into banishment. Charidemus therefore went as an exile to King Darius in Asia.”


Page 21, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XIL
ALEXANDER At THE Tow OF ACHILLES.—MEMNON’S ADVICE REJECTED BY THE PERSIAN,
Gonenats.

Wares he went up to ium, Menoetius the pilot erowned him with a golden crown: ater him
‘hares the Athenian," coming from Sigeum, as well as certain others, both Greeks and
natives, di the same. Alexander then encircled the tomb of Achilles with a garland; and its
said that Hephaestion'' decorated that of Patroclus in the same way. There is indeed a
report that Alexander pronounced Achilles fortunate in getting Homer as the herald of his
fame to posterity." And in truth it was meet that Alexander should deem Achilles fortunate
for this reason especially; for to Alexander himself this privilege was wanting, a thing which
was not in accordance with the rst of his good fortune. His achievements have, therefore,
not been related to mankind in a mannet worthy of the hero. Neither in prose nor in verse
hhas any one suitably honoured him; nor has he ever been sung of in a lyric poem, in which
style of poetry Hiero, Gelo, Theto, and many others not at all comparable with Alexander,
have been praised.” Consequently Alexander's deeds are far less known than the meanest
achievements of antiquity. For instance, the march of the ten thousand with Cyrus up to
Persia against King Artaxerxes, the tragic fate of Clearchus and those who were captured
along with him," and the march ofthe same men down tothe sea, in which they were led
bby Xenophon, are events much better known to men through Xenophon’s narrative than are
‘Alexander and his achievements. And yet Alexander neither accompanied another man’s,
expedition, nor did he in flight from the Great King overcome those who obstructed his
march down to the sea. And, indeed, there is no other single individual among Greeks oF
barbarians who achieved exploits so great or important either in regard to number or
magnitude as he did. This was the reason which induced me to undertake this history, not
thinking myself incompetent to make Alexander's deeds known to men. For whoever I may
be, this T know about myself, that there is no need for me to assert my name, for it is not
unknown 10 men; nor is it needful for me to say what my native land and family are, or if
hhave held any public office in my own country. But this Ido asset, that this historical work
is and has been from my youth up, in place of native land, family, and public offices to me;
and for this reason 1 do aot deem myself unworthy to rank among the first authors in the
Greek language, if Alexander indeed is among the first in arms.


Page 21, Instance 1, Class: Text
fortunate than that of Protesilaus had been.'"” He then committed to Parmenio the duty of
conveying the cavalry and the greater part of the infantry from Sestus to Abydus; and they
were transported in 160 tiremes, besides many trading vessels." The prevailing account i,
that Alexander started from Elaeis and put into the Port of Achaeans,"" that with his own
hhand he steered the general's ship across, and that when he was about the mile of the
channel of the Hellespont he sacrificed a bull to Poseidon and the Nereids, and poured forth
a libation to them into the sea from a golden goblet. They say also that he was the frst man
to step out of the ship in full armour on the land of Asia, and that he erected altars to
Zeus, the protector of people landing, to Athena, and to Heracles, at the place in Europe
Whence he started, and at the place in Asia where he disembarked. It i also said that he
Went up to lium and offered sacrifice t the Trojan Athena; that he set up his own panoply
inthe temple as a votive offering, and in exchange for it took away some of the consecrated
arms which had been preserved from the time of the Trojan war. These arms were said to
hhave been carried infront of him into the battles by the shield-bearing guards. report also
prevails that he offered sacrifice to Priam upon the altar of Zeus the household god,
eprecating the wrath of Priam against the progeny of Neoptolemus, from whom Alexander
himself derived his origin


Page 22, Instance 0, Class: Text
crossing the Hellespont; and on the following day he came to Pereote. On the next, passing
bby Lampsacus, he encamped near the river Practus, which flows from the Idaean mountains
and discharges itself into the sea between the Hellespont and the Euxine Sea. Thence
passing by the city of Colonae, he arrived at Hermotus. He now sent scouts before the army
under the command of Amyntas, son of Arthabacus, who had the squadron of the
‘Companion cavalry which came fom Apollonia,"* under the captain Socrates, son of
Sathon, and four squadrons of what were called Prodromi (runners forward) In the march
hhe despatched Panegorus, son of Lyeagoras, one of the Companions, to take possession of
the eity of Priapus, which was surrendered by the inbabitants,

‘The Persian generals were Arsames, Rheomithres, Petines, Niphates, and with them
Spithridates, viceroy of Lydia and Tonia, and Arsites, governor of the Phrygia near the
Hellespont. These had encamped near the city of Zeleia with the Persian cavalry and the
Grecian mercenaries. When they were holding a council about the state of affairs, it was
reported to them that Alexander had crossed (the Hellespont). Memnon, the Rhodian,”
advised them not to risk a conflict with the Macedonians, since they were far superior to
‘them in infantry, and Alexander was therein person; whereas Darius was not with them. He
advised them to advance and destroy the fodder, by trampling it down under their horses"
hoofs, to burn the erops of the country, and not even to spare the very cities. “For then
“Alexander,” sade, “will not be able t0 stay in the land from lack of provisions.” It is,
said that in the Persian conference Arsites asserted that he would not allow a single house
belonging to the people placed under his rule to be bumed, and that the other Persians
agreed with Arsites, because they had a suspicion that Memon was deliberately conttiving
to protract the war forthe purpose of obtaining honour from the king.

CHAPTER XIIL
Bart.e oF THe Granteus (a. 334)
MraNtine Alexander was advancing to the river Granieus,!* with his army arranged for
battle, having drawn up his heavy-armed troops in a double phalanx, leading the cavalry on 4
‘the wings, and having ordered thatthe baggage should follow inthe ear. And Hegelochus at
the head ofthe cavalry, who were armed with the long pike," and about 500 of the light-
armed troops, was sent by him to reconnoite the proceedings of the enemy. When
‘Alexander was not far from the river Granicus, some of his scouts rode up to him at full
speed and announced that the Persians had taken up their position on the other side of the
Granicus, drawn up ready for batle. Thereupon Alexander arranged all his army with the
intention of fighting. Then Parmenio approached him and spoke as follows: “I think,
{king that it is advisable forthe present to pitch our camp on the bank of the river as we ae.
For I think thatthe enemy, being, a they are, much inferior to usin infantry, will not dare to
‘pass the night near us, and therefore they will permit the army to cross the ford with ease at
daybreak. For we shall then pass over before they ean put themselves in order of battle;
Whereas, T do not think that we ean now attempt the operation without evident risk, because
itis not possible to lead the army through the river with its front extended. Besides, itis
clear that many parts of the stream are deep, and you see that these banks are steep and in
some places abrupt. Therefore the enemy's cavalry, being formed into a dense square, will


Page 22, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XIIL
Bart.e oF THe Granteus (a. 334)

MraNtine Alexander was advancing to the river Granieus,!* with his army arranged for
battle, having drawn up his heavy-armed troops in a double phalanx, leading the eavalry on
‘the wings, and having ordered thatthe baggage should follow inthe ear. And Hegelochus at
the head ofthe cavalry, who were armed with the long pike," and about 500 of the light-
armed troops, was sent by him to reconnoite the proceedings of the enemy. When
‘Alexander was not far from the river Granicus, some of his scouts rode up to him at full
speed and announced that the Persians had taken up their position on the other side of the
Granicus, drawn up ready for batle. Thereupon Alexander arranged all his army with the
intention of fighting. Then Parmenio approached him and spoke as follows: “I think,
{king that it is advisable forthe present to pitch our camp on the bank of the river as we ae.
For I think thatthe enemy, being, a they are, much inferior to usin infantry, will not dare to
‘pass the night near us, and therefore they will permit the army to cross the ford with ease at
daybreak. For we shall then pass over before they ean put themselves in order of battle;
‘whereas, I do not think that we can now attempt the operation without evident risk, because
itis not possible to lead the army through the river with its front extended. Besides, itis
clear that many parts of the stream are deep, and you see that these banks are steep and in
some places abrupt. Therefore the enemy's cavalry, being formed into a dense square, will
attack us as we emerge from the water in broken ranks and in column, in the place where we
are weakest At the present juncture the first repulse would be difficult to retrieve, as well as,
perilous for the issue of the whole war.”

But to this Alexander replied: “I recognise the force of these arguments, O Parmenio;
but I should feel it adisprace, if, after erossing the Hellespont so easily, this brook (for with
such an appellation he made light ofthe Granicus) should bar our passage for a moment. 1


Page 23, Instance 0, Class: Text
have suffered no defeat from me to warrant the fear they entertain.”
CHAPTER XIV.
AggaNGrMent oF THE HostiLé Anas,

Howvine spoken thus, he sent Parmenio to command upon the left wing, while he led in
person on the right, And at the head of the right wing he placed the following officers:—
Philotas, son of Parmenio, with the cavalry Companions, the archers, and the Ageianian
javelin-men; and Amyntas, son of Atrhabacus, with the cavalry carrying the long pike, the
Paconians, and the squadron of Socrates, was posted near Philotas. Close to these were
posted the Companions who were shield-bearing infantry under the command of Nieanor,
son of Parmenio. Next to these the brigade of Perdiccas, son of Orontes, then that of
Coenus, son of Polemoerates; then that of Craterus,’ son of Alexander, and that of
Amyntas, son of Andromenes: finaly, the men commanded by Philip son of Amyntas. The
first onthe left wing were the Thessalian cavalry, commanded by Calas, son of Harpalus:"* +
next to these, the cavalry of the Grecian allies, commanded by Philip, son of Menclais:"*
next to these the Thracians, commanded by Agatho."” Close to these were the infantry, the
brigades of Craterus, Meleager, and Philip, reaching as far as the centre of the entre line

‘The Persian cavalry were about 20,000 in number, and their infantry, consisting of
Grecian mercenaries, fell a litle short ofthe same number. They had extended thei horse
along the bank ofthe river ina long phalanx, and had posted the infantry behind the cavalry,
for the ground above the bank was steep and commanding. They also marshalled dense
squadrons of cavalry upon that part of the bank where they observed Alexander himself
advancing against their let wing; for he was conspicuous both by the brightness of his arms
and by the respectful service of his attendants, Both armies stood a long time at the margin
of the river, Keeping quiet from dread of the result and profound silence was observed on
both sides. For the Persians were waiting tll the Macedonians should step into the water,
With the intention of attacking them as they emerged. Alexander leaped upon his steed,
‘ordering those about him to follow, and exhorting them to show themselves valiant men. He
then commanded Amyntas, son of Arthabaeus, to make the first rush into the river atthe 4
hhead ofthe skirmishing cavalry, the Paconians, and one regiment of infantry; and in front of
these he had placed Ptolemy, son of Philip, in command of the squadron of Socrates, which
body of men indeed on that day happened to have the lead of all the cavalry foree. He
himself led the right wing with sounding of trumpets, and the men raising the warery to
Enyalius.® He entered the ford, Keeping his line always extended obliquely in the direction
in which the stream flowed, in order thatthe Persians might not fall upon him on the flank
as he was emerging from the water, but that he might, as far as practicable,” encounter
‘them with his phalanx.

CHAPTER XV.
DiscRiPTion oF THe BArTLE OF THE GraNtcus


Page 23, Instance 1, Class: Text
consider that this would be in accordance neither with the fame of the Macedonians nor
‘with my own eagerness for encountering danger. Moreover, I think that the Persians will
regain courage, as being a match in war for Macedonians, since up to the present time they
have suffered no defeat from me to warrant the fear they entertain.”


Page 24, Instance 0, Class: Text
(OF the cavalry, on the one side to emerge from the river, anc’ on fie ober f0 prevent me
landing. From the Persians there was a terrible discharge of darts; but the Macedonians
fought with spears. The Macedonians, being far inferior in number, suffered severely atthe
first onset, because they were obliged to defend themselves in the river, where their footing
was unsteady, and where they were below the level of their assailants; whereas the Persians
were fighting from the top of the bank, which gave them an advantage, especially as the best
of the Persian horse had been posted there. Memnon himself, as well as his sons, were
running every risk with these; and the Macedonians who first eame into conflict with the
Persians, though they showed great valour, were cut down, except those who retreated to
‘Alexander, who was now approaching. For the king was already near, leading with him the
right wing, He made his first assault upon the Persians atthe place where the whole mass of
their horse and the leaders themselves were posted; and around him a desperate conilict
raged," during which one rank of the Macedonians after another easly Kept on crossing
the river Though they fought on horseback, it scemed more like a infantry than a cavalry
battle; for they struggled for the mastery, horses being jammed with horses and men with
men, the Macedonians striving to drive the Persians entirely away fom the bank and to
force them into the plain, and the Persians striving to obstruct their landing and 10 push
them back again into the river. At last Alexander's men began to gain the advantage, both
‘through their superior strength and military discipline, and because they fought with spear-
shafts made of eornel-wood, whereas the Persians used only darts

‘Then indeed, Alexander's spear being broken to shivers inthe conflict, he asked Aretis,
‘one ofthe royal guards, whose duty it was to assist the king to mount his horse, for another
spear. But this man’s spear had also been shivered whilst he was in the thickest of the
sirugele, and he was conspicuous fighting withthe half of his broken spear. Showing this to
‘Alexander, he bade him ask some one else for one. Then Demaratus, a man of Corinth, one
‘of his personal Companions, gave him his own spear; which he had no sooner taken than
seeing Mithridates, the son-in-law of Darius, ring far in front of the others, and leading
with him a body of cavalry arranged like a wedge, he rode on in front of the others, and
biting at the face of Mithridates with his spear, struck him to the ground. But hereupon,
Rhoesaees rode up to Alexander and hit him on the head with his scimitar, breaking off a
piece of his helmet. But the helmet broke the force of the blow. This man also Alexander
struck to the ground, hitting him in the chest through the breastplate with his lance. And
now Spithridates from behind had already raised aloft his scimitar against the king, when
Clitus, son of Dropidas, anticipated his blow, and hitting him on the arma, eut it off, seimitar
and all? Meantime the horsemen, as many as were able, Kept on securing a landing all
down the iver, and were joining Alexander's forees.

CHAPTER XVI
Derear oF tht PrRsians.—Loss ow Boru SiDrs,
‘Tu Persians themselves, as well as their horses, were now being struck on thei faces with
the lances from all sides, and were being repulsed by the cavalry. They also received much
damage from the light-armed troops who were mingled with the cavalry. They first began to
tive way where Alexander himself was braving danger in the front. When theie centre had
sven way, the horse on both wings were also naturally broken through, and took to speedy. 4
flight. Of the Persian cavalry only about 1,000 were killed; for Alexander did not pursue
‘them far, but turned aside to attack the Greek mercenaries, the main body of whom was still
remaining where it was posted at first. This they did rather from amazement at the


Page 24, Instance 1, Class: Text
ABATE AVI.
Detar oF Tit: PERSIANS. Loss oN Bou SIDES.
‘Tue Persians themselves, as well as their horses, were now being struck on their faces with
the lances from all sides, and were being repulsed by the cavalry. They also received much
‘damage from the light-armed troops who were mingied with the cavalry. They first began to
sive way where Alexander himself was braving danger in the front. When their centre had
zziven way, the horse on both wings were also naturally broken through, and took to speedy
flight. OF the Persian cavalry only about 1,000 were killed; for Alexander did not pursue
them far, but tumed aside to attack the Greek mercenaries, the main body of whom was still
remaining where it was posted at first. This they did rather from amazement at the
unexpected result of the struggle than fiom any sieady resolution. Leading the phalanx
‘against these, and ordering the cavalry to fall upon them from all sides in the midst, he soon
cut them up, so that none of them escaped except such as might have concealed themselves


Page 25, Instance 0, Class: Text
Persians also fell in the battle: Niphates, Petines, Spithridates, viceroy of Lydia,
Mithrobuzanes, governor of Cappadocia, Mithridates, the son-in-law of Darius, Arbupales,
son of Darius the son of Artaxerxes, Pharnaces, brother ofthe wife of Darius," and Onares,
‘commander of the auxiliaries. Arsites fled from the battle into Phrygia, where he is reported
to have committed suicide, because he was deemed by the Persians the cause oftheir defeat
‘on that occasion.

Of the Macedonians, about twenty-five of the Companions were Killed atthe fist onset;
brazen statues of whom were erected at Dium,'"* executed by Lysippus, at Alexander's 4
‘order. The same statuary also executed a statue of Alexander himself, being chosen by him
for the work in preference to all other artists. Of the other eavalry over sixty were slain, and
‘of the infantry, about thirty.” These were buried by Alexander the next day, together with
their arms and other decorations. To their parents and children he granted exemption from
imposts on agricultural produce, and he relieved them from all personal services and taxes
upon property. He also exhibited great soictude in regard to the wounded, for he himself
Visited each man, looked at their wounds, and inguited how and in the performance of what
duty they had received them, allowing them both to speak and brag of their own deeds. He
also buried the Persian commanders and the Greek mercenaries who were Killed fighting on
the side ofthe enemy. But as many of them as he took prisoners he bound in fetters and sent
them away to Macedonia to tll the soil, because, though they were Greeks, they were
fighting against Greece on behalf of the foreigners in opposition to the decrees which the
Greeks had made in their federal council."* To Athens also he sent 300 suits of Persian
armour to be hung up in the Acropolis” as a votive offering to Athena, and ordered this
inseription to be fixed over them: “Alexander, son of Philip, and all the Greeks except the
Lacedaemonians, present this offering from the spoils taken from the foreigners inhabiting
Asia.”

E
CHAPTER XVIL


Page 25, Instance 1, Class: Text
ALEXANDER IN SaRDIs AND EPHESUS,

Havin appointed Calas to the post of viceroy of the terttory which had been under the rule
‘of Arsites, and having commanded the inhabitants to pay to him the same tribute which they
hhad paid to Darius, he ordered as many of the natives as came down from the mountains and
surrendered to him to depart to their several abodes. He also acquitted the people of
Zeleia of blame, because he knew they had been compelled to assist the Persians in the
Wat. He then despatched Parmenio to oceupy Dascylium,'*! which he easily performed; for
the garrison evacuated it. He himself advanced towards Sardis; and when he was about 70
stades'* distant from that city, he was met by Mithrines, the commandant of the garrison in
the Acropolis, accompanied by the most influential of the citizens of Sardis. The latter
surrendered the city into his hands, and Mithrines the fortress and the money Iaid up init

‘Alexander encamped near the river Hermus,'* which is about twenty stades'™ distant from
Sardis; but he sent Amyatas, son of Andromenes, to occupy the citadel of Sardis." He took
Mithrines with him, teating him with honour; and granted the Sardians and other Lydians
the privilege of enjoying the ancient laws of Lydia, and permitted them to be free. ie then
ascended into the citadel, which was garrisoned by the Persians. And the position seemed to
him a strong one; for it was very lofty, precipitous on every side, and fenced round by a
‘tiple wall He therefore resolved to build a temple to the Olympian Zeus on the hill, and to
erect an altar init but while he was considering which part of the hill was the most suitable
site, suddenly a winter storm arose, though it was the summer season, loud claps of thunder
were heard, and rain fll on the spot where the palace of the kings of Lydia had stood. From


Page 26, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘thts Alexander Hougit that the deity Had reveated to ham where the temple to Zeus ought To
bee built; and he gave orders accordingly. He left Pausanias, one of the Companions, to be
superintendent ofthe citadel of Sardis, Nicias to supervise the collection ofthe tribute and
taxes, and Asander, son of Philotas, to be superintendent of Lydia and the rest of the
dominion of Spithridates, giving him as large a number of cavalry and light-armed infantry
as seemed sufficient for present emergencies. He also sent Calas and Alexander, son of
‘Aéropus, into the country of Memnon,'“* in command of the Peloponnesians and most of
‘the other Grecian allies, except the Argives, who had been left behind to guard the citadel of
Sardis

Meantime, when the news of the cavalry battle was spread abroad, the Grecian
mercenaries who formed the garrison of Ephesus, seized two of the Ephesian tremes and
set off in flight. They were accompanied by Amyntas,” son of Antiochus, who had fled
from Alexander out of Macedonia, not because he had received any injury from the king,
‘but from ill-will to him, and thinking it not unlikely that he should suffer some il-treatment
from him (on account of his disloyalty). On the fourth day Alexander arrived at Ephesus,
Where he recalled from exile all the men who had been banished from the ety on account of
their adherence to him; and having broken up the oligarchy, he established a democratical
form of government there. He also ordered the Ephesians t0 contribute to Artemis! all the
tribute which they were in the habit of paying to the Persians. When the people of Ephesus
were relieved of their dread of the oligarchs, they rushed headlong to kill the men who had
brought Memnon into the city, as also those who had pillaged the temple of Artemis, and
‘those who had thrown down the statue of Philip which was inthe temple, and those who had
dug up and carried off from the tomb in the market place the bones of Heropythus, the
liberator oftheir city. They also led Syephax, and his son Pelagon, and the sons of Syxphax’s
brothers out ofthe temple and stoned them to death. But Alexander prevented them making
any further quest ofthe rest of the oligarchs for the purpose of wreaking their vengeance
upon them; for he knew that if the people were not checked, they would kill the innocent
along with the guilty, some from hatred, and others forthe sake of seizing ther property. At
this time Alexander gained great popularity both by his general course of action and
especially by what he did at Ephesus


Page 26, Instance 1, Class: Text
A EMAIEEIIN ANE

ALEXANDER MARCHES TO MILETUS AND OCCUPIES THE ISLAND OF LADE
Mr now came to im both from Magnesia! and Trales, offering to surrender those cities;
and to them he sent Parmenio, giving him 2,500 infantry from the Grecian auxiliaries, an
equal number of Macedonians, and about 200 of the Cavalry Companions. He also sent
Lysimachus, son of Agathocles," with an equal free tothe Aeolie cites,“ and to as many
of the Lonic cities!” as were still under the Persians. He was ordered to break up the
“ligarchies everywhere, to set up the demoeratcal form of government, to restore theit own
laws to each ofthe cities, and to remit the tribute which they were accustomed to pay to the
foreigners. But Alexander himself remained behind at Ephesus, where he offered a sacrifice
to Artemis and condueted a procession in her honour with the whole of his army fully armed
and marshalled for battle."

‘On the following day he took the rest of his infantry, the archers, the Agrianians, the
‘Thracian cavalry, the royal squadron of the Companions, and three other squadrons in
addition, and set out for Miletus. At his first assault he captured that which was called the
‘outer ety; forthe garrison had evacuated it. There he encamped and resolved to blockade
‘the inner ety; for Hegesistratus, to whom the king Darius had entrusted the command of the
garrison in Miletus, kept on sending letters before this to Alexander, offering to surrender
Miletus to him. But then, having regained his courage from the fact that the Persian fleet


Page 26, Instance 2, Class: Text
from Alexander out of Macedonia, not because he had received any injury from the king,
‘but from ill-will to him, and thinking it not unlikely that he should suffer some il-treatment
from him (on account of his disloyalty). On the fourth day Alexander arrived at Ephesus,
where he recalled from exile all the men who had been banished from the ety on account of |S
their adherence to him; and having broken up the oligarchy, he established a democratical
form of government there. He also ordered the Ephesians t0 contribute to Artemis! all the
tribute which they were in the habit of paying to the Persians. When the people of Ephesus
were relieved of their dread of the oligarchs, they rushed headlong to kill the men who had
brought Memnon into the city, as also those who had pillaged the temple of Artemis, and
‘those who had thrown down the statue of Philip which was inthe temple, and those who had
dug up and carried off from the tomb in the market place the bones of Heropythus, the
liberator oftheir city. They also led Syephax, and his son Pelagon, and the sons of Syxphax’s
brothers out ofthe temple and stoned them to death. But Alexander prevented them making
any further quest ofthe rest of the oligarchs for the purpose of wreaking their vengeance
upon them; for he knew that if the people were not checked, they would kill the innocent
along with the guilty, some from hatred, and others forthe sake of seizing ther property. At
this time Alexander gained great popularity both by his general course of action and
especially by what he did at Ephesus
CHAPTER XVIIL

ALEXANDER MARCHES TO MILETUS AND OCCUPIES THE ISLAND OF LADE
Mr now came to im both ftom Magnesia and Trales, offering to surrender those cities; 5
and to them he sent Parmenio, giving him 2,500 infantry from the Grecian auxiliaries, an
equal number of Macedonians, and about 200 of the Cavalry Companions. He also sent
Lysimachus, son of Agathocles," with an equal free tothe Aeolie cites,“ and to as many
of the Lonic cities!” as were still under the Persians. He was ordered to break up the
“ligarchies everywhere, to set up the demoeratcal form of government, to restore theit own
laws to each ofthe cities, and to remit the tribute which they were accustomed to pay to the
foreigners. But Alexander himself remained behind at Ephesus, where he offered a sacrifice
to Artemis and condueted a procession in her honour with the whole of his army fully armed
and marshalled for battle."

‘On the following day he took the rest of his infantry, the archers, the Agrianians, the
‘Thracian cavalry, the royal squadron of the Companions, and three other squadrons in
addition, and set out for Miletus. At his first assault he captured that which was called the
‘outer ety; forthe garrison had evacuated it. There he encamped and resolved to blockade
the inner city; for Hegesistratus, to whom the king Darius had entrusted the command of the


Page 27, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘commander of the Grecian fleet, anticipated the Persians by sailing into the port of Miletus
three days before they approached; and with 160 ships he anchored at the island of Lade,
Which lies near Miletus. The Persian ships arriving too late, and the admirals discovering
that Nicanor had occupied the anchorage at Lade before them, they took moorings near
Mount Mycate."* Alexander had forestalled them in seizing the island, not only by mooring
his ships near i, but also by transporting into it the Thracians and about 4,000 of the other
auxiliary troops. The ships of the foreigners were about 400 in number.

\NorwrrustaNbINc the superiority ofthe Persian fleet, Parmenio advised Alexander to fight
a sea-battle, expecting that the Greeks would be victorious with their fleet both for other
reasons and especially because an omen from the deity made him confident of the result; for
an eagle had been seen sitting upon the shore, opposite the stems of Alexander's ships."
He also urged that if they won the battle, they would reap a great advantage from it in regard
to their main object in the war; and if they were beaten, their defeat would not be of any
‘eat moment; for even as it was, the Persians held the sovereignty ofthe sea. He added that
the was willing t go on board the flet himself and to share the danger. However, Alexander
replied that Parmenio was mistaken in his judgment, and did not explain the sign according’
to probability. For it would be rash for him with a few ships to fight a batle against a fleet
far more numerous than his own, and with his unpracised naval force to contend against the
disciplined flet ofthe Cyprians and Phoenicians. Besides, he dd not wish to deliver over to
the foreigners on so unstable an element the advantage which the Macedonians derived
from their skill and courage: and if they were beaten in the sea-battle, their defeat would be
no small hindrance to their final success in the war, both for other reasons, and especially
because the Greeks, being animated with courage at the news of his naval defeat, would
attempt to effect a revolution. Taking al these things into consideration, he declared that he
did not think that it was a suitable time for fighting a seacbatle; and for his part, he
expounded the divine omen ina different way. He admitted thatthe eagle was in his favour,
‘but as it was seen sitting on the lan, it seemed to him rather tobe a sign that he should get
‘the mastery over the Persian fleet by defeating their army’ on land.

CHAPTER XIX.
‘Sze AN Capture or MiLetus.


Page 27, Instance 1, Class: Text
Sue aND CaProne oF MuLetus.
Ar this time Glausippus, one of the most notable men in Miletus, was sent out to Alexander
by the people andthe Grecian mercenaries, to whom rather than to the citizens the town had
‘been entrusted, to tell him that the Milesans were willing to make their walls and
harbours!” five to him and the Persians in common; and on these terms to demand that he
should raise the siege. But Alexander ordered Glaueippus to depart without delay into the
city, and tll the citizens to prepare fora batle at daybreak. He thea stationed his military
fengines near the wal, and having in a short time parlly broken and partly shaken down a
large piece of i, he Te his army near, that dhe men might enter wherever the wall had been
‘thrown down of shaken, The Persians from Mycale were following close’ upon them and
could almost see their trends and allies being besieged. In the meantime, Nicanor,
observing fiom Lade Alexander's commencement of the attack, began to sail into the
hharhour of Miletus, rowing along the shore: and mooring hs trizemes as close as possible
together, with their prows facing the enemy, across the narrowest part of the mouth of the
harbour he shut off the Persian fleet from the port and made i impossible forthe Persians to
jive succour to the Milesians. Then the Macedonians fom all sides pressed close upon the
citizens and the Grecian mercenaries, who took to fight; some of them, easing themselves
into the se, Noated along upon thee shies with the hollow upwards o an unnamed islet
which lies nea the city: others geting into their skfls and hastening to get the start of the


Page 28, Instance 0, Class: Text
are eee ata a eee a a
‘of them were slain inthe city itself. As soon as Alexander had got possession ofthe city, he
sailed against those who had fled for refuge into the island; ordering the men to carry
ladders upon the prows of the triremes, with the intention of effecting a landing along the
cliffs ofthe island, as one would mount a wall But when he saw thatthe men on the island
were resolved to run every risk, he was moved with pty for them, because they appeared to
hhim both brave and loyal; wherefore he made a truce with them on the condition that they
Would serve as his soldiers. These Grecian mercenaries were about 300 in number. He $7
likewise pardoned all the citizens of Miletus who had eseaped death in the capture of the
city, and he granted them thei freedom.

‘The foreigners used to start ftom Mycale every day and sail up to the Grecian fleet,
hoping to induce them to accept the challenge and come forth to a batle; but during the
night they used to moor their vessels near Mycale, which was an inconvenient station,
because they were under the necessity of fetching water from the mouth of the river
Macander, a great way off Alexander guarded the harbour of Miletus with his ships, in
‘order to prevent the foreigners from forcing an entrance: and at the same time he sent
Philotas to Mycale in command of the cavalry and three regiments of infantry, with
instructions to prevent the men in the ships from landing. Accordingly, they, being through
the scarcity of fresh water and of the other necessaries of life as good as besieged in their
ships, sailed away to Samos: where furnishing themselves with food, they sailed ack again
to Miletus. They then drew up most of thei ships infront ofthe harbour on the deep sea,
with the hope that they might in some way or other induce the Macedonians to come out
into the open sea. Five of their ships sailed into the roadstead which lay between the island
‘of Lade and the camp, expecting to surprise Alexander's ships while empty oftheir crews;
for they had ascertained that the sailors for the most part were dispersed from the ships,
some to gather fuel, others to collect provisions, and others being arranged in foraging
partis.” And indeed it happened that a number ofthe sailors were absent; but as soon as
‘Alexander observed the five Persian ships sailing towards him, he manned ten ships with
the sailors who happened to be at hand, and sent them with all speed against them with 5
‘orders 10 attack prow to prow. No sooner did the men in the five Persian ships see the
Macedonians bearing up against them, contrary to their expectation, than they immediately
tacked about, though far off, and fled to the rest of their fleet. However, the ship of the
Tassians,"" not being a fast sale, was captured in the fight, men an all; but the other four
succeeded in escaping to their own triremes. After this the Persians sailed away from
Miletus without effecting anything.

CHAPTER XX.
‘Siror oF HALicaRNassus.—Anonrive ATIACK ON MYNDUS,
AuexanpER now resolved to disband his fleet, partly from lack of money atthe time, and
partly because he saw that his own fleet was not a match in batle for that of the Persians
On this aecount he was unwilling to run the risk of losing even a part of his armament
Besides, he considered, that now he was occupying Asia with his land force, he would no
longer be in need of a feet; and that he would be able to break up that ofthe Persians, if he
captured the maritime cities: since they would neither have any ports from which they eould
recruit their crews, nor any harbour in Asia to which they could bring their ships. Thus he
explained the omen of the eagle to signify that he should get the mastery over the enemy's
ships by his land force. After doing this, be set forth into Caria," because it was reported 59


Page 28, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XX.
Surat oF HALIcARNASSUS.— ABORTIVE ATTACK ON M¥NDUS
‘Aurxanpen now resolved t0 disband his fleet, pay fiom lack of money atthe time, and
parlly because he saw that his own fleet was not a match in bate for that of the Persians
On this account he was unwilling to run the risk of losing even a part of his armament
Besides, he considered, that now he was occupying Asia with his land force, he would no
longer be in need ofa flet; and that he would be abe to break up that ofthe Persians, if he
captured the maritime eties; since they would nither have any ports ftom which they could
recruit their erews, nor any harbour in Asia to which they could bring thir ships. Thus he
explained the omen ofthe eagle to signify that he should get the mastery over the enemy's
ships by his land force. After doing this, be set forth into Caria," because it was reported
that a considerable force, both of foreigners and of Grecian auxiliaries, had collected in
Halicamassus.“° Having taken all the cities between Miletus and Halicarnassus as soon a8
hhe approached them, he encamped near the latter city, at a distance from it of about five


Page 29, Instance 0, Class: Text
stades,' as if he expected a long siege. For the natural position of the place made it strong:
and wherever there seemed to be any deficiency in security, it had been entirely supplied
long before by Memnon, who was there in person, having now been proclaimed by Darius
governor of lower Asia and commander of the entire fleet. Many Grecian mercenary
soldiers had been left in the eity, as well as many Persian troops: the tiremes also were
moored in the harbour, so thatthe sailors might render him valuable aid in the operations.
(On the first day of the siege, while Alexander was leading his men up to the wall in the
direction of the gate leading towards Mylasa," the men in the city made a sortie, and a
skirmish took place; but Alexander's men making a rush upon them repulsed them with
cease, and shut them up inthe city. A few days after this, the king took the shield-bearing
‘uards, the Cavalry Companions, the infantry regiments of Amyntas, Perdiceas and
Meleager, and in addition to these the archers and Agrianians, and went round to the part of
the city whieh isin the direction of Myndus, both forthe purpose of inspecting the wall, to
see if it happened to be more easy to be assaulted there than elsewhere; and atthe same time
to see if he could get hold of Myndus' by a sudden and secret attack. For he thought that if
Myndus were his own, it would be no small help in the siege of Halicarnassus; moreover, an
offer to surrender had been made by the Myndians if he would approach the town secretly,
under the cover of night. About midnight, therefore, he approached the wall, according to
the plan agreed on; but as no sign of surrender was made by the men within, and though he
hhad with him no military engines or ladders, inasmuch as he had not set out to besiege the
town, but to receive it on surrender, he nevertheless led the Macedonian phalanx near and
‘ordered them to undermine the wall. They threw down one of the towers, which, however,
in its fall did not make a breach in the wall. But the men in the city stoutly defending
themselves, and atthe same time many from Hoalicamassus having already come to their aid
by sea, made it impossible for Alexander to capture Myndus by surprise or sudden assault
Wherefore he retumed without accomplishing any of the plans for whieh he had set out, and
devoted himself once mote tothe siege of Halicarnassus

In the frst place he filled up with earth the ditch which the enemy had dug in front of|
the city, about thirty cubits wide and fifteen deep; so that it might be easy to bring forward
the towers, from which he intended to discharge missiles against the defenders of the wall,
and that he might bring up the other engines with which he was planning to batter the wall
down, He easily filled up the ditch, and the towers were then brought forward, But the men
in Halicamassus made a sally by night with the design of setting fire both to the towers and
the other engines which had been brought up to the wall, or were nearly brought up to it
‘They were, however, easily repelled and shut up again within the walls by the Macedonians
who were guarding the engines, and by others who were aroused by the noise of the struggle
and who came to their aid. Neoptolemus, the brother of Arshabaeus, son of Amyatas, one of
those who had deserted to Darius, was killed, with about 170 others of the enemy. Of
‘Alexander's soldiers sixteen were killed and 300 wounded; forthe sally being made in the
night, they were less able to guard themselves from being wounded,


Page 29, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXL.
SIEGE OF HALICARNASSUS,
‘A few days alter this, two Macedonian hoplites of the brigade of Perdiceas, living in the
same tent and being messmates, happened in the course of conversation each to be extolling
himself and his own exploits. Hence a quarrel arose between them as to which of them was
the braver, and, being somewhat inflamed with wine, they agreed to arm themselves, and of
their own accord go and assault the wall facing the citadel, which for the most part was
tummed towards Mylasa, This they did rather 1o make a display of their own valour than to
engage in a dangerous conflict with the enemy. Some of the men in the city, however,


Page 30, Instance 0, Class: Text
perceiving thet there were only two of them, and thet they were epproaching the wall
inconsiderately rushed out upon them: but they slew those who came nea, and hurled darts
at those who stood at a distance. At last, however, they were overmatched both by the
numberof thei assailants and the disadvantage of their own position; for the enemy made
te atack upon them, and threw darts at them from a higher level.” Meanwhile some other
men from the brigade of Perdiceas, and other ftom Halicamassus, rushed out against each «
‘ther; and a sharp contest ensued near the wall. Those who had made the sally from the city
were driven back, and again shut up within the gates by the Macedonians. The city also
narrowly escaped capture; for the walls at that time were not under strict guard, and two
towers, with the whole intermediate space, having already fallen to the ground, would have
offered an easy entrance within the wall to the army, if the whole of it had undertaken the
task The third tower, which had been thoroughly shaken, would likewise have been easily
‘thrown down if it had been undermined; but the enemy easily susceeded in building inside a
crescent-shaped brick wall to take the place of the one which bad fallen This they were able
to do so quickly because of the multitude of hands at their disposal. On the following day
‘Alexander brought his engines up to this wall also; and the men in the city made another
sally to set them on fte. A part ofthe wicker-work shed near the wall and a piece of one of
the wooden towers were burnt, but the rest were protected by Philotas and Hellanicus, to
whom the charge of them had been committed. But as soon as those who were making the
sally saw Alexander, the men who had eome out 10 render aid by holding torches threw
them away, and the majority of them castaway their arms and fled within the walls of the
city. Then at first they had the advantage from the nature of their position, which was
commanding on account of is height, for not only did they cast missles right in front
‘against the men who Were guarding the engines, but aso from the towers which alone had
‘been let standing at each end of the battered-down wall, they were able to cast them against
the sides, and almost agains the backs, of those who were assaulting the wall which had just,
‘been built in place ofthe ruined one."
(CHAPTER XXIL
Stor oF Hatscamsassus

‘A few days afer this, when Alexander again brought his military engines up to the inner
‘rick wal, and was himself superitending the work, a sortie in mass was made from the
city, some advancing by the breach inthe wal, where Alexander himself was posted, others
by the triple gate, where the Macedonians did not at all expect them. The first party cast
torches and other combustibles atthe engines, in order to set them on fre and 10 defy the
engineers excessively. But when the men around Alexander attacked them vigorously,
hurling great stones with the engines from the towers, and launching darts at them, they
were easily put to rout and fled into the ety; and asa great numberof them had salied forth
and great audacity had been exhibited inthe fight, no small slaughter of them took place.
For some of them were slain fighting hand-to-hand with the Macedonians, others. were
Ailled near the ruins of the wall! because the breach was too narrow for such a multiude
to passthrough, and the Fagments of the wall made it difioult for them to seale it The
second party, which said forth by the tiple gate, was met by Ptolemy." one of the royal
‘body-guards, who had with him the regiments of Addaeus and Timander and some of the
light-armed troops. These soldiers by themselves easily put the men ofthe city to rout; but
4s the latter in their retreat were fleving over a narrow bridge which had been made over the
ditch, they had the misfortune to break it down by the weight of their multitude. Many of


Page 30, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXII
SIEGE OF HALICARNASSUS,
‘A few days alter this, when Alexander again brought his military engines up to the inner
brick wall, and was himself superintending the work, a sortie in mass was made from the
city, some advancing by the breach in the wall, where Alexander himself was posted, others
by the triple gate, where the Macedonians did not at all expect them. The frst party cast
torches and other combustibles at the engines, in order to set them on fire and to defy the
engineers excessively. But when the men around Alexander attacked them vigorously,
hurling great stones with the engines from the towers, and launching darts at them, they
were easily put to rout and fled into the city; and as a great number of them had sallied forth
and great audacity had been exhibited in the fight, no small slaughter of them took place.
For some of them were slain fighting hand-to-hand with the Macedonians, others: were
Killed near the ruins of the wall," because the breach was to0 narrow for such a multitude
to pass through, and the fragments of the wall made it difficult for them to scale it. The
second party, which sallied forth by the triple gate, was met by Ptolemy," one of the royal
bbody-guards, who had with him the regiments of Addaeus and Timander and some of the
light-armed troops. These soldiers by themselves easily put the men of the city to rout; but
as the latter in ther retreat were leeing over a narrow bridge which had been made over the
ditch, they had the misfortune to break it down by the weight of their multitude. Many of
‘them fell into the ditch, some of whom were trampled to death by their own comrades, and
‘others were killed by the Macedonian weapons from above. A very great slaughter was also
made at the very gates, because they were shut before the proper time in a state of panic. For


Page 31, Instance 0, Class: Text
(Bout one Mousand were star, and’ on wcxander’s men abour jury: among whom were
Ptolemy, one ofthe king’s body-guards, Clearchus, a captain ofthe archers, Addacus, who
hhad the command ofa thousand infantry, and other Macedonians of no mean position.”

CHAPTER XXIIL
DestRucTION oF HALICARNASSUS—ADA, QUEEN OF CARA

‘Turn Orontobates and Memon, the commanders of the Persians, met and decided from the
state of affairs that they could not hold out long against the siege, seeing that part ofthe wall
had already fallen down and part had been battered and weakened, and that many of their 6
soldiers had either perished in the sorties or been wounded and disabled, Taking these things
into consideration, about the second watch of the night they set fire to the wooden tower
Which they had themselves built to resist the enemy’s military engines, and to the magazines
in which their weapons were stored. They also cast fre into the houses near the wall; and
‘others were burned by the flames, which were caried with great fury from the magazines
and the ower by the wind beating in that direction. Some ofthe enemy then withdrew tothe
stronghold in the island (called Arconnesus), and others to another fortress called Salmacis.
When this was reported to Alexander by Some deserters ftom the incendiaries, and he
himself could see the raging fire, though the occurrence took place about midnight, yet he
led out the Macedonians and slew those who were still engaged in setting fire to the city
But he issued orders to preserve all the Halicarnassians who should be taken in their houses
‘As soon as the daylight appeared he could discern the strongholds which the Persians and
‘the Grecian mercenaries had occupied: but he decided not to besiege them, considering that
the would meet with no small delay beleaguering them, from the nature oftheir position, and
moreover thinking that they would be of litle importance to him now that he had captured
the whole city

Wherefore, burying the dead in the night, he ordered the men who had been placed in
charge of the military engines to convey them to Tralles. He himself marched into Phryia,
after razing the city to the ground, and leaving 3,000 Grecian infantry and 200 cavalry as a
‘guard both of this place and of the rest of Caria, under the command of Ptolemy. He
appointed Ada to act as his viceroy of the whole of Caria” This queen was daughter of
Heecatomnus and wife of Hidieus, who, though he was her brother, lived with her in
wedlock, according tothe custom of the Carians. When Hidrieus was dying, he confided the
administration of affairs to her, for it had been a custom in Asia, ever since the time of
Semiramis, even for women to rule men. But Pixodarus expelled her from the rule, and
seized the administration of affairs himself. On the death of Pixodarus, his son-in-law
Orontobates was sent by the king of the Persians to rule over the Carians. Ada retained
‘linda alone, the strongest place in Caria; and when Alexander invaded Caria she went to
meet him, offering to surrender Alinda to him, and adopting him as her son.!”* Alexander
confided Alinda to her, and did not think the title of son unworthy of his acceptance;
moreover, when he had captured Halicarassus and become master ofthe rest of Caria, he
‘ranted her the privilege of ruling over the whole country.


Page 31, Instance 1, Class: Text
the enemy, being affaid that the Macedonians, who were close upon the fugitives, would
rush in with them, shut many of ther fiends out, who were slain by the Macedonians near
the very wall. The city narrowly escaped capture; indeed it would have been taken, had not
‘Alexander called back his army, to see if some ffiendly sign of surrender would be made by
‘the Halicamassians; for he was still desirous of saving their city. OF the men in the city
about one thousand were slain; and of Alexander's men about forty, among whom were
Ptolemy, one ofthe king’s body-guards, Clearchus, a captain ofthe archers, Addacus, who
hhad the command ofa thousand infantry, and other Macedonians of no mean position.”


Page 32, Instance 0, Class: Text
Some of the Macedonians who served in Alexander's army had married just before he
undertook the expedition. He thought that he ought not to treat these men with neglect, and
‘therefore sent them back from Caria to spend the winter in Macedonia with their wives. He
placed them under the command of Ptolemy, son of Seleucus, one ofthe royal bodyguards,
and of the two generals Coenus, son of Polemoerates, and Meleager, son of Neoptolemus, 6
because they were also newly married. He gave these officers instructions to levy as many
hhorse and foot soldiers as they could from the country, when they returned to him and
brought back the men who had been sent away with them. By this act more than by any
other Alexander acquired popularity among the Macedonians. He also sent Cleander, son of
Polemocrates, to levy soldiers in Peloponnesus,* and Parmenio to Sardis, giving him the
‘command of a regiment of the Cavalry Companions, the Thessalian cavalry, and the rest of
the Grecian alles. He ordered him to take the wagons to Sardis and to advance from that
place into Phrygia

He himself marched towards Lycia and Pamphylia in order to gain command of the
ccoastland, and by that means render the enemy's fleet useless. The first place on his route
was Hypama, a strong position, having a garrison of Grecian mercenaries; but he took it at
the first assault, and allowed the Greeks to depart from the citadel under a truce. Then he
invaded Lycia and brought over the Telmissians by capitulation; and crossing the river
‘Xanthus, the ities of Pinara, Xanthus, Patara, and about thirty other smaller towns were
surrendered to him.”* Having accomplished this, though it was now the very depth of
winter, he invaded the land called Milas,” which is a part of Great Phrygia, but at that
time paid tribute to Lycia, according fo an arrangement made by the Great King. Hither
ceame envoys from the Phaselites,”” to treat for his ftiendship, and to crown him with a
golden crown; and the majority’ of the maritime Lycians also sent heralds to him as
ambassadors to treat forthe same objet. He ordered the Phaselites and Lycians to surrender
their cities to those who were despatched by him to receive them: and they were all
surrendered. He soon afterwards arrived himself at Phaselis, and helped the men of that city
to capture a strong fort which had been constructed by the Pisdians to overawe the country;
and sallying forth from which those barbarians used to inflict much damage upon the
Phaselites who tilled the and.”

CHAPTER XXV.
TREASON OF ALEXANDER, SON OF AEROPUS,


Page 32, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXV.
TREASON OF ALEXANDER, SON OF AEROPUS,
Wane the king was still near Phaselis he received information that Alexander, son of
Aéropus, who was not only one of the Companions, but also at that time commander of the
‘Thessaian horse, was conspiring against him. This Alexander was brother of Heromenes
and Arthabaeus, who had taken part in the murder of Philip." At that time King Alexander
pardoned him, though he was accused of complicity with them, because after Philip's death
hhe was among the first of his friends 10 come to him, and, helping him on with his
‘breastplate, accompanied him to the palace. The king afterwards showed him honour at his
court, sent him as general into Thrace; and when Calas the commander of the Thessalian
horse was sent away to a viceroyalty"” he was appointed to succeed that general. The
details of the conspiracy were reported as follows: When Amyntas deserted to Darius," he
conveyed to him certain messages and a leter from this Alexander. Darius then sent Sisines,
‘one of his own faithful Persian couriers, down to the sea-coast, under pretence of going to
“Atizyes, viceroy of Phrygia, but realy to communicate with this Alexander, and to give him
pledges, that it he would kill king Alexander, Darius would appoint him king of Macedonia,
‘and would give him 1,000 talents of gold in addition to the kingdom. But Sisines, being


Page 33, Instance 0, Class: Text
captured by Parmenio, told him the real object of his mission. Parmenio sent him
immediately under guard to the king, who obtained the same intelligence fiom him. The
King then, having collected his frends, proposed to them as a subject for deliberation what
decision he ought to make in regatd to this Alexander. The Companions thought that
formerly he had not resolved wisely in confiding the best part of his cavalry to a faithless
man, and that now it was advisable to put him out of the way as speedily as possible, before
hhe became even more popular among the Thessalians and should tty to effect some
revolutionary plan with their aid. Moreover they were tetified by a certain divine portent.
For, while Alexander the king was still besieging Halicamassus, itis said that he was once
taking rest at midday, when a swallow flew about over his head loudly twitering, and
perched now on this side of his couch and now on that, cieping more noisily than usual. On
ecount of his fatigue he could aot be roused from sleep, but being disquited by the sound
hhe brushed her away gently with his hand. But though stuck she was so far ffom trying to
escape, that she perched upon the very head of the king, and dd not desist uni he was wide
awake, Thinking the affair of the swallow of no trivial import, he communicated it to a
soothsayer, Aristande the Telmissian," who told him that t signified a plot formed by one
of his friends. He said it also signified that the plot would be discovered, because the
swallow was a bird fond of man’s society and well disposed to him as well as more
loquacious than any other bied. Therefore, comparing this with the depositions of the
Petsan, the king seat Amphotenus, son of Alexander and brother of Cratetus to Parmenio;
and with him he sent some Pergacans to show him the way. Amphoterus, putting on a native
Ares, 80 that he should not be recognised on the road, reached Parmenio by stealth. He did
not cary a letter from Alexander, because it did not appear to the king advisable to write
‘openly about such a matter; but he reported the message entrusted to him by word of mouth,
‘Consequently this Alexander was arested and kept under guard


Page 33, Instance 1, Class: Text
revolutionary plan with their aid. Moreover they were terrified by a certain divine portent.
For, while Alexander the king was still besieging Halicarnassus, itis said that he was once 7
taking rest at midday, when a swallow flew about over his head loudly twittering, and
perched now on ths side of his couch and now on that, chigping more noisily than usual. On
account of his fatigue he could not be roused from sleep, but being disquieted by the sound
hie brushed her away gently with his hand. But though struck she was so far from trying to
escape, that she perched upon the very head ofthe king, and did not desist until he was wide
awake. Thinking the affair of the swallow of no trivial import, he communicated it to a
soothsayer, Aristander the Telmissian,*® who told him that it signified a plot formed by one
of his friends. He said it also signified that the plot would be discovered, because the
swallow was a bird fond of man's society and well disposed to him as well as more
loquacious than any other bird. Therefore, comparing this with the depositions of the
Persian, the king sent Amphoterus, son of Alexander and brother of Craterus to Parmenio;
and with him he sent some Pergaeans to show him the way. Amphoterus, putting on a native
‘ress, so that he should not be recognised on the road, reached Parmenio by stealth. He did
not earry a letter from Alexander, because it did not appear to the king advisable to write
‘openly about such a matter; but he reported the message entrusted to him by word of mouth,
‘Consequently this Alexander was arrested and kept under guard,
CHAPTER XXVL.

ALEXANDER IN PAMPHTYLIA—CAPTURE OF ASPENDUS AND SIDE
‘AuexanpeR then, moving from Phases, sent part of his army to Perga through the
mountains, where the Thracians had levelled a road for him by a oute which was otherwise 7
difficult and long. But he himself led his own brigade by the beach along the sea, where
there is no route, except when the north wind blows. But ifthe south wind prevails i i,
impossible to journey along the beach. At that time, after a strong south wind, the north
winds blew, and rendered his passage easy and quick, not without the divine intervention, as
‘both he and his men interpreted. As he was advancing from Perga, he was met on the toad
bby envoys from the Aspendians'* with fll powers, who offered to surrender their ety, but
‘begged him not lead a garrison into it. Having gained their request in regard tothe garrison,
‘they went back; but he ordered them to give him fifty talents! as pay for his army, as well
as the horses which they were rearing as tribute to Darius. Having agreed with him about
‘the money, and having likewise promised to hand over the horses, they departed.

‘Alexander then marched to Sidé"” the inhabitants of which were Cymacans from
‘Cyme, in Aeolis. These people give the following aecount of themselves, saying that their
ancestors starting ftom Cyme, artived in that country, and disembarked to found a
settlement. They immediately forgot the Grecian language, and forthwith began to utter a
foreign speech, not, indeed, that of the neighbouring barbarians, but a speech peculiar to 7
themselves, which had never before existed. From that time the Sidetans used to speak a
foreign language unlike that of the neighbouring nations. Having left @ garrison in Sid2,
‘Alexander advanced 10 Syllium,'®* a strong place, containing a garrison of Grecian
mercenaries as well as of native barbarians themselves. But he was unable to take Sylium
nt hu a cad dan necett. fay bos sens snthutiaad str tie annie that the Acmmdione cfd


Page 34, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXVIL
ALEXANDER IN PURYGIA AND PISA.
‘Tu greater part of Aspendus haul been built upon a strong and precipitous rock, atthe very
foot of which flows the river Eurymedon'™; but round the rock, on the low ground, were
many of the citizens’ houses, surrounded by a small wall. As soon as they ascertained that
‘Alexander was approaching, the inhabitants deserted the wall and the houses situated on the
low ground, which they thought they were unable to protect; and they fled in a body to the
rock. When he arrived with his forces, he passed within the deserted wall and took up his. 7
{quarters in the houses which had been abandoned by the Aspendians. When these saw that
‘Alexander himself had come, contrary to their expectation, and that his eamp was encircling
‘them on all sides, they sent envoys to him, entreating him to form an agreement with them
‘on the former terms. Alexander, considering the strength of the place, and how unprepared
the was to undertake a long siege, entered into an agreement with them, though not on the
same terms as before. For he ordered them to give him their most influential men as
hostages, to hand over the horses which they had formerly agreed to give him, to pay 100,
talents instead of fifty, to obey the viceroy appointed by him, and to pay an annual tribute to
the Macedonians. Moreover he directed an inquiry to be held about the land which they
‘were accused of holding by force, though it belonged of right to their neighbours
When all these concessions iad been made to him, le marched away to Perga, and

thence set out for Phrygia, his route leading him past the city of Termessus. The people of
this city are foreigners, of the Pisidian race, inhabiting a very lofty place, precipitous on
every side: so that the toad to the ety isa difficult one. For a mountain stretches from the
city as far as the road, where it suddenly stops short; and over against it rises another
mountain, no less precipitous. These mountains form gates, as it were, upon the road: and it
is possible for those who occupy these eminences even with a small guard to render the
passage impracticable. On this occasion the Termissians had come out in a body. and were
‘occupying both the mountains; seeing which, Alexander ordered the Macedonians to
fencamp there, armed as they were, imagining that the Termissians would not remain in a
‘body when they saw them bivouacking, but that most of them would withdraw into their
city, which was near, leaving upon the mountains only sufficient men to form a guard. And 7
it turned out just as he conjectured; for most of them retired, and only a guard remained. He
forthwith took the archers, the regiments of javelin-throwers, and the lighter hopites, and
led them against those who were guarding the pass. When these were attacked with missiles,
they did not stand their ground, but abandoned the position. Alexander then passed through
the defile, and encamped near the city

CHAPTER XXVIIL.

Overations 1N Piss.
Wie he was there, ambassadors came to him from the Selgians. who are also Pisidian


Page 34, Instance 1, Class: Text
to perform any of their agreements, and would neither deliver the horses to those who were
Sent to receive them, nor pay the money: but that they had collected their property out ofthe
fields into the city, shut their gates against his men, and were repairing their walls where
they had become dilapidated. Hearing this, he marched off to Aspendus.


Page 35, Instance 0, Class: Text
loss of time, he marched on to Sagalassus. This was also a large city, inhabited likewise by
Pisidians; and though all the Pisidians are warlike, the men of this city were deemed the
most so. On this oceasion they had occupied the hill in feont ofthe city, because it was no
less strong than the walls, from which to attack the enemy: and there they were awaiting
him, But Alexander drew up the phalanx of Macedonians in the following way: on the right
wing, where he had himself taken up his position, he held the shield-bearing guards, and
next to these he extended the foot Companions as far asthe left wing, in the order that each
‘of the generals had precedence in the array that day. On the left wing he stationed Amyntas,
son of Archabaeus, as commander. In front of the right wing were posted the archers and
‘Agrianians, and in front of the left wing the Thracian javelin-throwers under the command
of Sitalees’ But the cavalry were no use to him in a place so rough and unfavourable. The
“Termessians also had come to the aid ofthe Pisidians, and arrayed themselves with them,
‘Alexander had already made an attack upon the mountain which the Pisidians were
‘occupying, advancing up the most abrupt part of the ascent, when the barbarians from an
ambuscade attacked him on both wings, ina place where it was very easy for themselves to
advanee, but where the toute was very difficult for their enemy: The archers, who were the
first to approach, were put 10 rout, inasmuch as they were insufficiently armed: but the
‘Agrianians stood their ground, forthe Macedonian phalanx was already drawing nea, atthe
hhead of which Alexander himself was seen. When the battle became a hand-to-hand one,
though the barbarians were destitute of armour, they rushed against the Macedonian
hoplites, and fell wounded on all sides. Then, indeed, they gave way, after about 500 of
them had been Killed. As they were nimble and well-aequainted with the locality, they
effected their retreat without difficulty; whereas the Macedonians, on account of the
heaviness of their arms and their ignorance of the roads, durst not pursue them vigorously.
‘Alexander therefore held off from the fugitives, and took theie city by storm. Of those with
him, Cleander, the general of the archers, and about twenty others were slain. Alexander
then marched against the rest of the Psidians, and took some of their strongholds by storm;
‘others he won over to him by granting them terms of capitulation.
CHAPTER XXIX,
ALEXANDER IN PHRYGIA

‘Tuexcr he went into Phrygia, passing by the lake called Ascania,® in which salt is,
naturally conereted. The natives use ths salt, and do not need the sea at all for this article
(On the fifth day of his march, he arrived at Celaenae,”" in which city there was a fortified
rock, precipitous on all sides. This citadel was occupied by the vieeroy of Phrygia with a
‘garrison of 1,000 Carians and 100 Grecian mercenaries. These men despatched ambassadors
to Alexander, promising to surrender the place to him, if suecour did not reach them by a
day which had been agreed upon with them, naming the day.” This arrangement seemed to
‘Alexander more advantageous than to besiege the fortified rock, which was inaccessible on
all sides to attack. At Celaenae he left a garrison of 1,500 soldiers. Remaining here ten days,


Page 35, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘him, Cleander, the general of the archers, and shout twenty others were slain Alexander
then marched against the rest of the Psidians, and took some of their strongholds by storm;
‘others he won over to him by granting them terms of capitulation.

,
CHAPTER XXIX,
ALEXANDER IN PHRYGIA
‘Tuexcr he went into Phrygia, passing by the lake called Ascania,® in which salt is,
naturally conereted. The natives use this salt and do not need the sea at all for this article.
(On the fifth day of his march, he arrived at Celaenae,”" in which city there was a fortified
rock, precipitous on all sides. This citadel was occupied by the vieeroy of Phrygia with a
‘garrison of 1,000 Carians and 100 Grecian mercenaries. These men despatched ambassadors
to Alexander, promising to surrender the place to him, if suecour did not reach them by a
day which had been agreed upon with them, naming the day.” This arrangement seemed to
‘Alexander more advantageous than to besiege the fortified rock, which was inaccessible on
all sides to attack. At Celaenae he left a garrison of 1,500 soldiers. Remaining here ten days,
hhe appointed Antigonus, son of Philip." viceroy of Phrygia, placed Balacrus, son of
Anmyntas! as general over the Grecian allies in place of Antigonus, and then directed his
march to Gordium."* He sent an order to Parmenio to meet him there withthe forces under 7
his command; an order which that general obeyed. The newly-martied men also, who had
‘been despatched to Macedonia, now arrived at Gordium, and with them another army which
hhad been levied, and put under the command of Ptolemy, son of Seleueus,' Coenus, son of
Polemocrates, and Meleager, son of Neoptolemus. This army consisted of 3,000
Macedonian foot-soldiers and 300 horse-soldiers, 200 Thessalian cavalry, and 150 Eleans


Page 36, Instance 0, Class: Text
Gordium is in the Phrygia which lies near the Hellespont, and is situated upon the river
Sangarius, which takes is rise in Phrygia, bu, flowing through the land of the Bithynian
Thracians, falls info the Euxine Sea. Here an embassy reached Alexander from the
‘Athenians, beseeching him to release o them the Athenian prisoners who had been captured
at the river Granicus, fighting for the Persians, and were then in Macedonia serving in
chains with the two thousand others captured in that batle. The envoys departed without
‘obiaining their request on behalf of the prisoners for the present. For Alexander did not
‘think it safe, whilst the war against the Persian was still going on, to relax in the slightest,
degree the terror with which he inspired the Greeks, who did not deem it unbecoming for
them to serve as soldiers on behalf of the foreigners against Greece. However, he replied
that whenever his present enterprise had been successfully achieved, they might then come
as ambassadors to treat on behalf of the same persons.”


Page 36, Instance 1, Class: Text
BOOK II. ,
CHAPTER |
(CaProge oF MIrvLine ny THE PERSIANS.—Drarit oF MEMNON,
Soon after this, Memnon, whom King Darius had appointed commander of the whole fleet
and of the entire sea-coast with the design of moving the seat of war into Macedonia and
Greece, aequired possession of Chios, which was surrendered to him by treachery. Thence
he sailed to Lesbos and brought over to his side all the cities of the island,”* except
Mitylene, the inhabitants of which did not submit to him. When he had gained these cities
‘over, he turned is attention to Mitylene: and walling off the city from the rest of the island
by constructing a double stockade from sea to sea, he easly got the mastery on the land side
by building five camps. A part of his fleet guarded their hatbout, and, intercepting the ships
passing by, he kept the rest of his fleet as a guard off Sigrium,”” the headland of Lesbos,
‘where is the best landing-place for trading vessels from Chios, Geraestus,” and Malea.*"
By this means he deprived the Mitylenaeans of all hope of suecour by sea. But meantime he
himself fell ill and died, and his death at that ersis was exceedingly injurious tothe king's
interests. Nevertheless Autophradates, and Phamabazus, son of Artabazus, prosecuted the
siege with vigour. To the latte indeed, Memnon, when dying, had entrusted his command,
as he was his sisters son, till Darius should come to some decision on the matter. The
Mitylenaeans, therefore, being excluded from the land, and being blockaded on the sea by
many ships Iying at anchor, sent to Pharnabazus and came to the following agreement:—
‘That the auxiliary troops which had come to their aid from Alexander should depart, that the
citizens should demolish the pillars on which the treaty made by them with Alexander was
inseribed,”” that they should become allies of Darius on the terms of the peace which was
made with King Darius in the time of Antaeidas,” and that their exiles should return from
banishment on condition of receiving back half the property which they possessed when
‘they were banished. Upon these terms the compact was made between the Mitylenacans and
the Persians. But as soon as Pharnabazus and Autophradates once got within the city, they
introduced a garison with Lycomedes, a Rhodian, as its commandant. They also appointed
Diogenes, one of the exiles, to be despot of the city, and exacted money from the
Mitylenacans, taking part of it by violence for themselves from the wealthy citizens, and


Page 37, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Aree accomplishing this, Pharnabazus sailed to Lycia, taking with him the Grecian
mercenaries; but Autophradates sailed to the other islands. Meantime Darius sent
‘Thymondas, son of Mentor. down to the maritime distiets, 10 take over the Grecian
auxiliaries from Phamabazus and to lead them up to him; and to tell Pharnabazus that he
was to be the ruler ofall that Memnon had ruled. So Pharnabazus handed over to him the
Grecian auxiliaries and then sailed o join Autophradates and the flet. When they met, they
despatched Datames, a Persian, with ten ships to the islands called Cyclades," whilst they
with 100 sailed to Tenedus.*" Having sailed into the harbour of Tenedus which is called
Boréus, they sent a message to the inhabitants, commanding them to demolish the pillars on
Which the teaty made by them with Alexander and the Greeks was inscribed, and 10 observe
in regard to Darius the terms of the peace which they had ratified wit the king of Persia in
the time of Antalcidas. The Tenedians preferred to be on terms of amity with Alexander and
the Greeks; but in the present crisis it seemed impossible to save themselves except by
Yielding to the Persians, since Hegelochus, who had been commissioned by Alexander to
collect another naval force, had not yet gathered so large a fleet as to warrant them in
expecting any speedy succour from him. Accordingly Pharnabazus made the Tenedians
‘comply with his demands rather from fear than good-will.

Meantime Proteas, son of Andronicus, by command of Antipater.” succeeded in
collecting ships of war from Euboea and the Peloponnese, so that thete might be some
protection both for the islands and for Greece itself, if the foreigners attacked them by sea,
as it was reported they intended to do. Learning that Datames with ten ships was moored
near Siphnus."* Proteas set out by night with fifteen from Chalcis on the Euripus,"” and
approaching the island of Cythnus®” at dawn, he spent the day there in order to get more
certain information of the movements of the ten ships, esolving at the same time to fall
upon the Phoenicians by night, when he would be likely to strike them with greater terror.
Having discovered with certainty that Datames was moored with his ships at Siphnus, he
sailed thither while it was sil dark, and just at the very dawn fell upon them when they
least expected it, and captured eight ofthe ships, men and all. But Datames, with the other
two triremes, escaped by stealth at the beginning of the attack made by the ships with
Proteas, and feached the rest ofthe Persian fleet in safety

CHAPTER IIL
ALEXANDER AT GorDIUM.
Wire Alexander arrived at Gordium, he was seized with an ardent desire to go up into the
citadel, which contained the palace of Gordius and his son Midas. He was also desirous of
seeing the wagon of Gordius and the cord which bound the yoke to the wagon. There was a
‘great deal of talk about this wagon among the neighbouring population, It was said that
‘Gordius was a poor man among the ancient Phryzians, who had a small pieee of land to til,
and two yoke of oxen. He used one of these in ploughing and the other to draw the wagon,
‘©n one occasion, while he was ploughing, an eagle settled upon the yoke,”" and remained
sitting there uni the time came for unyoking the oxen. Being alarmed atthe sight, he went
to the Telmissian soothsayers to consult them about the sign from the deity; for the


Page 37, Instance 3, Class: Text
ALEXANDER AT GORDIUM,
Wutex Alexander arrived at Gordium, he was seized with an ardent desire t0 go up into the
citadel, which contained the palace of Gordius and his son Midas. He was also desitous of
seeing the wagon of Gordius and the cord which bound the yoke to the wagon. There was a
‘great deal of talk about this wagon among the neighbouring population, It was said that
Gordius was a poor man among the ancient Phrygians, who had a small piece of land to tll,
and 1wo yoke of oxen, He used one of these in ploughing and the other to draw the wagon.
(On one occasion, while he was ploughing, an eagle settled upon the yoke," and remained
sitting there until the time eame for unyoking the oxen. Being alarmed atthe sight, he went
to the Telmissian soothsayers 10 consult them about the sign from the deity; for the
‘Telmissians were skilful in interpreting the meaning of Divine manifestations, and the
power of divination has been bestowed not only upon the men, but also upon their wives
land children fom generation to generation, When Gordius was driving his wagon near a
certain village of the Telmissians, he met a maiden fetching water from the spring, and to


Page 38, Instance 0, Class: Text
her he related how the sign of the eagle had appeared to him. As she herself was of the
prophetic race, she instructed him to return to the very spot and offer sacrifice to Zeus the
king. Gordius requested her to accompany him and direct him how to perform the sacrifice.
He offered the sacrifice inthe way the giel suggested, and afterwards marred her. Ason was
‘bom to them named Midas, who, when he arrived at the age of maturity, was both
hhandsome and valiant. At this time the Phrygians were harassed by civil discord, and &
consulting the oracle, they were told that a wagon would bring them a king, who would put
an end to their discord.” While they were still deliberating about this very matter, Midas
arrived with his father and mother, and stopped near the assembly with the very wagon in
‘question. They, interpreting the oracular response o refer to hin, decided that this was the
person whom the god told them the wagon would bring. They therefore appointed Midas
king; and he, putting an end to their discord, dedicated his father’s wagon inthe citadel as 3
thank-offering to Zeus the king for sending the eagle. In addition to this the following report
was current conceming the wagon, that whosoever eould loosen the cord with which the
yoke of the wagon was tied, was destined to be the ruler of Asia. The cord was made of
‘cornel bark, and neither end nor beginning to it could be seen. Its said by some that when
‘Alexander could find out no way to loosen the cord and yet was unwilling to allow it to
remain unloosened, lest it should exercise some disturbing influence upon the multitude, he
struck the cord with his sword and cut it through, saying that it had been untied by him. But
Aristobulus says that he pulled out the pin of the wagon-pole, which was a wooden peg
driven right through it, holding the cord together. Having done this, he drew out the yoke
from the wagon-pole. How Alexander performed the feat in connection with this cord, I
cannot affirm with confidence. At any rate both he and his troops departed from the wagon
as ifthe oracular prediction concerning the untying of the cord had been fulfilled. Moreover,
that very night, the thunder and lightning were signs from heaven of is fulfilment; and for
this reason Alexander offered sacrifice on the following day to the gods who had revealed
‘the signs and assured im thatthe cond had been untied ina proper way." ®
CHAPTER IV.
‘Conauist oF Cappanocta.—ALEXANDER'S ILLNESS at TARSUS.
‘Tu next day he sent out to Aneyra®" in Galatia, where he was met by an embassy from the
Paphlagonians, offering to surrender their nation to him and to enter into an alliance with
hhim; but they requested him not 10 invade their land with his forces. He therefore
commanded them to submit to the authority of Calas, the viceroy of Phrygia. Marching
thence into Cappadocia, he subjugated all that part of it which lies on this sie of the river
Halys.'° and much of that which lies beyond it. Having appointed Sabictas viceroy of
Cappadocia, he advanced to the Gates of Cilicia" and when he arrived at the Camp of
Cynus, who (went) with Xenophon,"” and saw that the Gates were occupied by strong
‘ards, he left Parmenio there with the regiments of infantry which were more heavily
armed; and about the first watch, taking the shield-bearing guards, the archers, and the
‘Agrianians, he advanced by night to the Gates, inorder to fall upon the guards when they
least expected it. However, his advance was not unobserved; but his boldness served him &
equally wel, for the guards, perceiving that Alexander was advancing in person, deserted
their post and set off inflight. At dawn next day he passed through the Gites with all his
forces and descended into Cilicia." Here he was informed that Arsames had previously
intended to preserve Tarsus for the Persians: but when he heard that Alexander had already
passed through the Gates, he resolved to abandon the city; and that the Tarsians were
therefore afraid he would turn to plunder their city and afterwards evacuate it. Hearing this,


Page 39, Instance 0, Class: Text
Aristobulus; but other authors say that while he was very hot and in profuse perspiration he
leaped into the iver Cydnus""” and swam, being eager to bathe in its water. Ths river flows
through the midst of the city; and as its source is in mount Taurus and it flows through 3
clean district, it is cold and its water is clear. Alexander therefore was seized with
convulsions, accompanied with high fever and continuous sleeplessness. None of the
physicians thought he was likely to survive," except Philip, an Acamanian, a physician in *
attendance on the king, and very much trusted by him in medical matters, who also enjoyed
1 great reputation inthe army in general affairs. This man wished to administer a purgative
draught to Alexander, and the king ordered him to administer it. While Philip was preparing
‘the cup, a letter was given to the king from Parmenio, waming him to beware of Philip; for
hhe heard thatthe physician had been bribed by Darius to poison Alexander with medicine
But he, having read the letter, and still holding it in his hand, took the eup which contained
the medicine and gave Philip the letter to ead. While Philip was reading the news from
Parmenio, Alexander drank the potion. It was at once evident tothe king thatthe physician
was acting honourably in giving the medicine, for he was not alarmed atthe leter, but only
so much the more exhorted the king to obey all the other prescriptions which he might give,
‘promising that his life would be saved if he obeyed his instructions. Alexander was purged
by the draught, and his illness then took a favourable turn. He afterwards proved to Philip
that he was a faithful friend to hin; and to the rest of those about he proved that he had
perfeet confidence in his friends by refusing to entertain any suspicion of ther fidelity; and
atthe same time he showed that he could meet death with dauntless courage.”
CHAPTER V.

ALEXANDER Ar THE Ton OF SARDANAPALUS—PROCEEDINGS IN CILCA
‘Arve this he sent Parmenio tothe other Gates which separate the and ofthe Ciliians from
that of the Assyrians, in order to capture them before the enemy could do so, and to guard
the pass.” He gave him the allied infantry, the Grecian mercenaries, the Thracians who
were under the command of Sitales, and the Thessalian cavalry. He afterwards marched
from Tarsus, and on the frst day arrived atthe city of Anchialus.™* According to report, this
city was founded by Sardanapalus the Assyrian; and both from the circumference and
from the foundations of the walls its evident that a large city had been founded and that i
hhad reached a great pitch of power. Also near the wall of Anchialus was the monument of
Sardanapalus, upon the top of which stood the statue of that king with the hands joined to
each other just as they are joined for clapping. An inscription had been placed upon it in
Assyrian characters," which the Assyrians asserted to be in metre. The meaning which the
words expressed was this:—“Sardanapalus, son of Anacyndaraxas, built Anchialus and
‘Tarsus in one day; but do thou, O stranger, eat, drink, and play since all other human things
are not worth this!” referring, as in a riddle, to the empty sound which the hands make in
lapping. It was also said that the word translated play had been expressed by a more lewd
fone in the Assyrian language.

From Anchialus Alexander went to Soli” into which city he introduced a garison, and
imposed upon the inhabitants a fine of 200 talents of silver. because they were more
inclined 0 favour the Persians than himself. Then, having taken three regiments of
Macedonian infantry, all the archers, and the Agrianians, he marched away thence against
the Cilicians, who Were holding the mountains: and in seven days in all, having expelled
some by force, and having brought the rest over by composition, he marched back to Soli


Page 39, Instance 1, Class: Text
consequently Arsames, hearing of his start, fled with speed from Tarsus to King Darius

Without inflicting any injury upon the city

‘Alexander now fell ill from the toils he had undergone, according to the account of
Aristobulus; but other authors say that while he was Very hot and in profuse perspiration he
leaped into the iver Cydnus""” and swam, being eager to bathe in its water. Ths river flows
through the midst of the city; and as its source is in mount Taurus and it flows through 3
clean district, it is cold and its water is clear. Alexander therefore was seized with
convulsions, accompanied with high fever and continuous sleeplessness. None of the
physicians thought he was likely to survive," except Philip, an Acamanian, a physician in
attendance on the king, and very much trusted by him in medical matters, who also enjoyed
1 great reputation inthe army in general affairs. This man wished to administer a purgative
draught to Alexander, and the king ordered him to administer it. While Philip was preparing
‘the cup, a letter was given to the king from Parmenio, waming him to beware of Philip; for
hhe heard thatthe physician had been bribed by Darius to poison Alexander with medicine
But he, having read the letter, and still holding it in his hand, took the eup which contained
the medicine and gave Philip the letter to ead. While Philip was reading the news from
Parmenio, Alexander drank the potion. It was at once evident tothe king thatthe physician
was acting honourably in giving the medicine, for he was not alarmed atthe leter, but only
so much the more exhorted the king to obey all the other prescriptions which he might give,
‘promising that his life would be saved if he obeyed his instructions. Alexander was purged
by the draught, and his illness then took a favourable turn. He afterwards proved to Philip
that he was a faithful friend to hin; and to the rest of those about he proved that he had
perfeet confidence in his friends by refusing to entertain any suspicion of ther fidelity; and
atthe same time he showed that he could meet death with dauntless courage.”


Page 40, Instance 0, Class: Text
4 stop to it. He remitted the tribute which they were paying to King Darius, because the
Malliotes were a colony of the Argives, and he himself claimed to have sprung from Argos,
‘being a descendant of Heracles
CHAPTER VI.
ALEXANDER ADVANCES TO MYRIANDRUS.—DARIUS MARCHES AGAINST HM

Wane he was still at Mallus, he was informed that Darius was encamped with all his forces
at Sochi, a place in the land of Assyria, distant about two days’ march from the Assyrian
Gates.” Then indeed he collected the Companions and told them what was reported about
Darius and his army. They urged him to lead them on as they were, without delay. At that %
time he commended them, and broke up the conference: but next day he led them forward
against Darius and the Persians. On the second day he passed through the Gates and
encamped near the city of Myriandrus:* but in the night a heavy tempest and a violent
storm of wind and rain occurred which detained him in his eamp. Darius, on the other hand,
hhad been spending a long time with his army, having chosen a plain in the land of Assyria,
which stretches out in every direction, suitable for the immense size of his army and
convenient for the evolutions of cavalry. Amyntas, son of Antiochus, the deserter from
‘Alexander, advised him not to abandon this position, because there was plenty of room for
‘the great multitude of the Persians and for the vast quantity of their baggage. So Darius
remained. But as Alexander made a long stay at Tarsus on account of his illness, and not a
short one at Soli, where he offered sacrifice and conducted his army in procession, and
moreover spent some time in marching against the Cilician mountaineers, Darius was
induced to swerve from his esolution. He was also not unwilling tobe led to form whatever
decision was most agreeable to his own wishes; and being influenced by those who gave
hhim the adviee which they thought would be pleasant to him, without consideration ofits
utility (for kings will always have associates to give them bad advice)" he came to the
conclusion that Alexander was no longer desirous of advancing further, but was shrinking
from an encounter on leaming that Darius himself was marching against him. On all sides
they were urging him on, asserting that he would trample down the army of the
Macedonians with his cavalry." Nevertheless, Amyntas, at any rate, confidently affirmed
that Alexander would certainly come to any place where he heard Darius might be; and he
exhorted him by all means to stay where he was. But the worse advice, because at the
immediate time it was more pleasant to hear, prevailed; moreover he was led by some
divine influence into that locality where he derived litle advantage from his cavalry and
from the sheer number of his men, javelins and bows, and where he could not even exhibit
the mere magnificence of his army, but surrendered to Alexander and his troops an easy
victory. Kor it ema alrendy decreed try fate that the Persians chould be denrived of the rule cf


Page 40, Instance 1, Class: Text
Here he ascertained that Ptolemy and Asander’~’ had gained the mastery over Orontobates
the Persian who was guarding the citadel of Halicarnassus, and was also holding Myndus,
Caunus, Thera, and Callipolis”” Cos and Triopium® also had been brought into
subjection. They wrote to inform him that Orontobates had been worsted in a great battle;
that about 700 of his infantry and 50 of his eavalry had been Killed, and not Less than 1,000
taken prisoners. In Soli Alexander offered sacrifice to Asclepius,”” conducting a procession  *
of the entire army, celebrating a torch race, and superintending a gymnastic and musical
contest. He granted the Solians the privilege of a democratic constitution; and then
marched away to Tarsus, despatching the cavalry under Philotas to march through the
‘Aleian plain to the river Pyramus.** But he himself with the infantry and the royal squadron
of cavalry came to Magarsus, where he offered sacrifice to the Magarsian Athena. Thence
hhe marched to Mallus, where he rendered to Amphilochus the sacrificial honours due to a
hero He also arrested those who were reating a sedition among the citizens, and thus put
4 stop to it. He remitted the tribute which they were paying to King Darius, because the
Malliotes were a colony of the Argives, and he himself claimed to have sprung from Argos,
‘being a descendant of Heracles


Page 41, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER VIL
DDanivs ar Iss —ALEXANDER’S SPEECH TO Hs ARM
Darius erossed the mountain range by what are called the Amanic Gates, and advancing
towards Issus, eame without being noticed to the tear of Alexander" Having reached Issus,
he captured as many of the Macedonians as had been left behind there on account of illness.
‘These he eruely mutilated and slew. Next day he proceeded to the river Pinarus. AS soon as
‘Alexander heard that Darius was in his rear, because the news did not seem to him
‘ustworthy, he embarked some of the Companions in ship with thirty oars, and sent them
back to Issus, to observe whether the report was true...The men who sailed in the thiety-
‘oared ship discovered the Persians encamped there more easily, because the sea in this part
takes the form of a bay: They therefore brought back word to Alexander that Darius was at
hhand. Alexander then called together the generals, the commanders of cavalry, and the
leaders of the Grecian alles, and exhorted them to take courage from the dangers which
they had already surmounted, asserting thatthe struggle would be between themselves who
hnad been previously vietorious and a foe who had already been beaten; and thatthe deity
was acting the part of general on their behalf better than himself, by putting it into the mind
‘of Darius to move his forces from the spacious plain and shut them up in a narrow place,
Where there was suficient room for them to deepen their phalanx by marching from front to
rear, but where thei vast multitude would be useless to their enemy in battle. He added that
thet foes were similar to them neither in strength nor in courage; for the Macedonians, who
hnad long been practised in warlike toils aecompanied with danger, were coming into close
conflict with Persians and Medes, men who had become encrvated by a long course of
luxurious ease: and, to crown all, they, being freemen, were about to engage in battle with
men who were slaves. He said, moreover, that the Greeks who were in the two armies would
not be fighting forthe same objects; for those with Darius were braving danger for pay, and.‘
that pay not high; whereas, those on their side were voluntarily defending the interests of
Greece. Again, of foreigners, the Thracians, Paeonians, Ilyrians, and Agrianians, who were
the most robust and warlike of men in Europe, were about to be arrayed against the most
sluggish and effeminate races of Asia, In addition to allthis, Alexander was commanding in
the field against Darius. These things he enumerated as evidences oftheir superiority i the
strugee; and then he began to point out the great rewards they would win from the danger
to be incurred. For he told them that on that occasion they would overcome, not merely the
Viceroys of Darius, nor the cavalry drawn up at the Granicus, nor the 20,000 Grecian
mercenaries, but would overcome all the available forces ofthe Persians and Medes, as well
asall the other races subject to them dwelling in Asia, and the Great King present in person.
‘After this conflict nothing, would be left for them to do, except to take possession of all
‘Asia, and to put an end to their many labours. In addition to this, he reminded them of their
brilliant achievements in their collective capacity in days gone by: and if any man had
individually performed any distinguished feat of valour from love of glory, he mentioned
him by name in commendation ofthe deed.” He then recapitulated as modestly as possible
his own daring deeds in the various battles. He is also said to have reminded them of
‘Xenophon and the ten thousand men who accompanied him, asserting thatthe latter were in
ho way comparable with them either in number or in general excellence. Besides, they had
hhad with them neither Thessalian, Beeotian, Peloponnesian, Macedonian, or Thracian
horsemen, nor any of the other cavalry which was in the Macedonian army: nor had they
any archers or slingers except a few Cretans and Rhodians, and even these were got ready‘
‘by Xenophon on the spur of the moment in the very crisis of danger"! And yet even these


Page 42, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER VIIL
AggaNGrMent oF THE HostiLé Anas,

Auexanper then ordered his soldiers 0 take their dinner, and having sent a few of his
horsemen and archers forward to the Gates to reconnoitre the road in the rear, he took the
Whole of his army and marched in the night to occupy the pass again. When about midnight
hie had again got possession of it, he caused the army to rest the remainder ofthe night there
upon the rocks, having posted vigilant sentres. At the approach of dawn he began to
descend from the pass along the road; and as long as the space was narrow everywhere, he
led his army in column, but when the mountains parted so as to leave a plain between them,
hhe kept on opening out the column into the phalanx, marching one line of heavy armed 9
infantry after another up into line towards the mountain on the right and towards the sea on
the left. Up to this time his cavalry had been ranged behind the infantry; but when they
advanced into the open country, he began to draw up his army in order of battle. First, upon
the right wing near the mountain he placed his infantry guard and the shield-bearers, under
the command of Nicanor, son of Parmenio: next to these the regiment of Coenus, and close
to them that of Perdiecas” These troops were posted as far as the middle of the heavy-armed
infantry t0 one beginning from the right. On the left wing first stood the regiment of
Amyntas, then that of Ptolemy, and close to this that of Meleager. The infantry onthe left
hhad been placed under the command of Craterus; but Parmenio held the chief direction of
the whole left wing. This general had been ordered not to abandon the sea, so that they
might not be surrounded by the foreigners, who were likely to outflank them on al sides by
‘their superior numbers."

But as soon as Darius was certified of Alexander's approach for battle, he conveyed
about 30,000 of his cavalry and with them 20,000 of his light-armed infantry across the
river Pinarus, in order that he might be able to draw up the rest of his forces with ease. Of
the heavy armed infantry, he placed first the 30,000 Greek mercenaries to oppose the
phalanx of the Macedonians, and on both sides ofthese he placed 60,000 of the men called
Cardaces.* who were also heavy-armed infantry ** For the place where they were posted  '
was able to contain only this number in a single phalanx.” He also posted 20,000 men near
‘the mountain on their left and facing Alexander's right. Some of these troops were also in
the rear of Alexander's army: for the mountain near which they were posted in one part
sloped a great way back and formed a sort of bay, ike a bay in the sea, and afterwards
bending forwards caused the men who had been posted at the foot of it to be behind
‘Alexander's right wing. The remaining multitude of Darius’s light-armed and heavy-armed
infantry was marshalled by nations to an unserviceable depth and placed behind the Grecian
mercenaries and the Persian army arranged in phalanx. The whole of the army with Darius
was said to number about 600,000 fighting men.”

‘As Alexander advanced, he found that the ground spread out a litle in breadth, and he
accordingly brought up his horsemen, both those called Companions, and the Thessalians as
well as the Macedonians, and posted them with himself on the right wing. The
Peloponnesians and the rest of the allied force of Greeks he sent to Parmenio on the left.
When Darius had marshalled his phalanx, by a pre-concerted signal he recalled the cavalry
which he had posted in front of the river for the express purpose of rendering the arranging


Page 42, Instance 1, Class: Text
put the king and all his forces to rout close to Babylon? itself, and succeeded in reaching
the Euxine Sea after defeating all the races which lay in their Way as they were marching
down thither. He also adduced whatever other arguments were suitable for a great
‘commander to use in order to encourage brave men in such a critical moment before the
perils of battle. They urged him to lead them against the foe without delay, coming from all
Sides to grasp the king’s right hand, and encouraging him by their promises,


Page 43, Instance 0, Class: Text
position, the reason of which arrangement hes been recorded by Xenophon, son of

Gryllus.**

CHAPTER IX.

ALEXANDER CHANGIS THE DISPOSITION OF Hs FORCES,

MraNtise when Alexander perceived that nearly all the Persian cavalry had changed their
‘round and gone to his left towards the sea, and that on his side only the Peloponnesians and
the rest of the Grecian cavalry were posted there, he sent the Thessalian cavalry thither with
speed, ordering them not to ride along before the front of the whole array lst they should
‘be seen by the enemy tobe shifting their ground, but to proceed by stealth in the ear ofthe
phalanx.” In front of the eavalry on the right, he posted the lancers under the command of
Protomachus, and the Paconians under that of Aristo: and ofthe infantry, the archers under
the direction of Antiochus, and the Agrianians under that of Attalus. Some of the cavalry 9
and archers also he drew up so as to form an angle withthe centre” towards the mountain
‘which was in the rear; so on the right his phalanx had been drawn up separated into two
‘wings the one fronting Darius and the main body of Persians beyond the river, andthe other
facing those who had been posted at the mountain in thei rea. On the eft wing the infantry
consisting of the Cretan archers and the Thracians under command of Sitales were posted
in front, and before these the cavalry towards the left. The Grecian mercenaries were drawn
up as a reserve forall of them. When he perceived that the phalanx towards the right was
too thin, and it seemed likely thatthe Petsians would outflank him here considerably, he
‘ordered two squadrons of the Companion cavalry, viz. the Anthemusian.2*! of which
Peroedas, son of Menestheus, was captain, and that which was ealled Leugacan, under the
‘command of Pantordanus, son of Cleander, to proceed from the centre tothe right without
being seen, Having also marched the archers, part of the Agrianians and of the Grecian
mercenaries up along his right inthe front, he extended his phalanx beyond the wing of the
Persians. But when those who had been posted upon the mountain did not descend, a charge
‘was made by a few of the Agrianians and archers at Alexander's order, by which they were
easily put tothe rout from the foot of the mountain. As they led to the Summit he decided
that he could make use ofthe men who had been drawn up to keep these in cheek, to fill up
‘the ranks of his phalanx. He thought it quite sufficient to post 300 horsemen to watch the 9
men on the mountain,

CHAPTER X.

Barr oF Isws
Hoang thus marshalled his men, he eaused them to rest for some time, and then led them
forward, as he thought the enemy's approach was very slow. For Darius was no longer
leading the foreigners against him, as he had arranged them at first, but he remained in his


Page 43, Instance 1, Class: Text
of his army easy. Most of these he placed on the right wing near the sea facing Parmenio;
‘because here the ground was more suitable forthe evolutions of cavalry. A certain part of
them also he led up fo the mountain towards the left. But when they Were seen to be Useless
there on account of the narrowness of the ground, he ordered most of these also to ride
round tothe right wing and joi thei comrades thee. Darius himself occupied the centre of
the whole army, inasmuch as it was the custom for the kings of Persia to take up that
position, the reason of Which arrangement has been recorded by Xenophon, son of
Gryllus8


Page 44, Instance 0, Class: Text
eee ean ee ne eee ee ene eee ee oe ey eee
exhort his troops to show their valour; mentioning with befitting epithets the names, not
only of the generals, but also those of the captains of cavalry and infantry, and of the
Grecian mercenaries as many as were more distinguished either by rank or merit. From all
sides arose a shout not to delay but to attack the enemy. At frst he stil ed them on in elose
array with measured step although he had the forces of Darius already in full view, lest by 3
more hasty march any part of the phalanx should fluctuate from the line™* and get separated
from the rest. But when they came within range of darts, Alexander himself and those
around him being posted on the right wing, advanced first into the river with a run, inorder
to alarm the Persians by the rapidity of ther onset, and by coming sooner to close confit to
receive little damage from the archers. And it turned out just as Alexander had conjectured:
for as soon as the battle became a hand-to-hand one, the part ofthe Persian army stationed
‘on the left wing was put o rout; and here Alexander and his men won a brilliant victory. But
the Grecian mercenaries serving under Darius attacked the Macedonians at the point where
‘they saw their phalanx especially disordered. For the Macedonian phalanx had been broken
and disjoined towards the right wing; because Alexander had charged into the river with
ceagemess, and engaging in a hand-to-hand conflict was already driving back the Persians
posted there; but the Macedonians in the centre did not execute ther task with equal speed;
and finding many parts ofthe bank steep and precipitous, they were unable to preserve the
front of the phalanx in the same line. Here then the struggle was desperate; the aim of the
Grecian metcenaries of Darius being to push the Macedonians back into the river, and
regain the vietory, though their own forces were already flying; the aim of the Macedonians
being not to fall short of Alexander's good-fortune, which was already manifest, and not to
tamish the glory of the phalanx, which up to that time had been commonly asserted to be
invincible. Moreover the feeling of rivalry which existed between the Grecian and
Macedonian races inspired each side in the conflict. Here fell Ptolemy, son of Seleucus,
after proving himself @ valiant man, besides about one hundred and twenty other
Macedonians of no mean repute.**

CHAPTER XI.
Derear aNp Fuicntr oF Danses,
HrreuPon the regiments on the right wing, perceiving that the Persians opposed t0 them
had already been put to rout, wheeled round towards the Grecian mercenaries of Darius and
their own hard-pressed detachment. Having driven the Greeks away from the river, they
extended their phalanx beyond the Persian army on the side which had been broken: and
attacking the Greeks on the flank, were already beginning to cut them up. However the
Persian cavalry which had been posted opposite the Thessalians did not remain on the other
side of the river during the strugele, but came through the water and made a vigorous attack
upon the Thessalian squadrons.” In this place a fierce cavalry battle ensued, for the
Persians did not give way until they perceived that Darius had fled and the Grecian
mercenaries had been eut up by the phalanx and severed from them. Then at lst the fight
of all the Persians was plainly visible. Their horses suffered much injury in the retreat,
‘because the riders" were heavily armed; and the horsemen themselves, being so many in
number and retreating in pane terror without any regard to order along narrow roads, were
‘trampled on and injured no less by each other than by the pursuing enemy. The Thessalians
also followed them up with vigour, so that no fewer of the cavalry than of the infantry”
were slaughtered in the fight
But as soon as the left wing of Darius was terrified and routed by Alexander, and the!

Persian king perceived that this part of his army was severed ftom the rest, without any
further delay he began to flee in his chariot along with the first, just as he was.2"* He was


Page 44, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XI.
Derear aNp Fuicntr oF Danses,

HrreuPon the regiments on the right wing, perceiving that the Persians opposed t0 them
had already been put to rout, wheeled round towards the Grecian mercenaries of Darius and
their own hard-pressed detachment. Having driven the Greeks away from the river, they
extended their phalanx beyond the Persian army on the side which had been broken: and
attacking the Greeks on the flank, were already beginning to cut them up. However the
Persian cavalry which had been posted opposite the Thessalians did not remain on the other
side of the river during the strugele, but came through the water and made a vigorous attack
upon the Thessalian squadrons.” In this place a fierce cavalry battle ensued, for the
Persians did not give way until they perceived that Darius had fled and the Grecian
mercenaries had been eut up by the phalanx and severed from them. Then at lst the fight
of all the Persians was plainly visible. Their horses suffered much injury in the retreat,
‘because the riders" were heavily armed; and the horsemen themselves, being so many in
‘number and retreating in panic terror without any regard to order along narrow roads, were
‘trampled on and injured no less by each other than by the pursuing enemy. The Thessalians
also followed them up with vigour, so that no fewer of the cavalry than of the infantry”
‘were slaughtered inthe fight.

But as soon as the left wing of Darius was terified and routed by Alexander, and the
Persian king perceived that this part of his army was severed ftom the rest, without any
further delay he began to flee in his chariot along with the first, just as he was." He was


Page 44, Instance 2, Class: Text
But when the armies at length met in conflict, Alexander rode about in every direction to
‘exhort his troops to show their valour, mentioning with befitting epithets the names, not
only of the generals, but also those of the captains of cavalry and infantry, and of the
Grecian mercenaries a8 many as were more distinguished either by rank or merit, Erom all
sides arose a shout not to delay but to attack the enemy. At first he still led them on in close
array with measured step, although he had the forces of Darius already in full view, lest by a
more hasty march any part of the phalanx should fluctuate from the line" and get separated
from the rest. But when they came within range of darts, Alexander himself and those
around him being posted on the right wing, advanced first into the river with a run, inorder |
1 alarm the Persians by the rapidity of their onset, and by coming sooner to close conflict to
receive litle damage from the archers. And it tumed out just as Alexander had conjectured;
for as soon as the battle became a hand-to-hand one, the part of the Persian army stationed
‘on the left wing was put to rout; and here Alexander and his men won a brilliant victory. But
the Grecian mercenaries serving under Darius attacked the Macedonians at the point where
they saw their phalanx especially disordered. For the Macedonian phalanx bad been broken
and disjoined towards the right wing; because Alexander had charged into the river with
feagemess, and engaging in a hand-to-hand conflict was already driving back the Persians
posted there; but the Macedonians in the centre did not execute thei task with equal speed;
and finding many parts ofthe bank steep and precipitous, they were unable to preserve the
front of the phalanx in the same line. Here then the struggle was desperate; the aim of the
Grecian metcenaties of Darius being to push the Macedonians back into the river, and
regain the vietory, though their own forces were already flying; the aim of the Macedonians
‘being not to fall short of Alexander's good-fortune, which was already manifest, and not to
amish the glory of the phalanx, which up to that time had been commonly asserted to be
invincible, Moreover the feeling of rivalry which existed between the Grecian and
Macedonian races inspired each side in the conflict. Here fell Ptolemy, son of Seleucus,
after proving himself a valiant man, besides about one hundred and twenty other


Page 45, Instance 0, Class: Text
lighted upon ravines and other rough ground, he left the chariot there, divesting himself of
his shield and Median mantle. He even left his bow in the chariot; and mounting @ horse
continued his flight. The night, which came on soon after, alone rescued him ftom being
captured by Alexander:”® for as long as there was daylight the latter kept up the pursuit at

full speed. But when it began to grow dark and the ground before the feet became invisible,

the tured back again to the camp, after capturing the chariot of Darius with the shield, the
Median mantle, and the bow init For his pursuit had been too slow for him to overtake 1
Darius, because, though he wheeled round at the frst braking asunder ofthe phalanx, yet

the didnot tur to pursue him until he observed thatthe Grecian mercenaries and the Persian
cavalry had been driven away from the river.

(Of the Persians were killed Arsames, Rheomithres, and Atizyes who had commanded
the cavalry at the Granicus. Sabaces, viceroy of Egypt, and Bubaces, one of the Persian
dignitaries, were also Killed, besides about 100,000 of the private soldiers, among them
‘being more than 10,000 cavalry." So great was the slaughter that Ptolemy, son of Lagus,
who then accompanied Alexander, says that the men who were with them pursuing Darius,
coming in the pursuit to a ravine, filled it up with the corpses and so passed over it. The
‘camp of Darius was taken forthwith at the first assault, containing his mother, his wite,—
Who was also his sister —and his infant son.” His two daughters, and a few other women,
wives of Persian peers," who were in attendance upon them, were likewise captured. For
the other Persians happened to have despatched their women along with the rest of their
property to Damascus: because Darius had sent to that city the greater part of his money
and all the other things which the Great King was in the habit of taking with him as
necessary for his luxurious mode of living, even though he was going on a military 10
expedition. The consequence was, that in the camp no more than 3,000 talents! were
captured; and soon after, the money in Damaseus was also seized by Parmenio, who was
despatched thither for that very purpose. Such was the result ofthis famous bale (which
was fought) in the month Maimacterion, when Nicostratus was archon ofthe Athenians.*

CHAPTER XIL
Kino Tararwent oF Darius’s Fam
‘Tu next day, Alexander, hough suffering from a wound which he had received in the thigh
from a sword, visited the wounded, and having collected the bodies ofthe slain, he gave
them a splendid burial with all his forees most brilliantly marshalled in order of battle. He
also spoke with eulogy to those whom he himself had recognised performing any gallant
deed in the battle, and also to those whose exploits he had learnt by report fully
corroborated. He likewise honoured each of them individually with a gift of money in


Page 45, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘was fought) in the mont: Maimacterion, when Nicostratus was archon of the Athentang.""
CHAPTER XIL
Kino Tararwent oF Darius’s Fam

‘Tu next day, Alexander, hough suffering from a wound which he had received in the thigh
from a sword, visited the wounded, and having collected the bodies ofthe slain, he gave
them a splendid burial with all his forees most brilliantly marshalled in order of battle. He
also spoke with eulogy to those whom he himself had recognised performing any gallant
deed in the battle, and also to those whose exploits he had learnt by report fully
corroborated. He likewise honoured each of them individually with a gift of money in
proportion to his desert” He then appointed Balacrus, son of Nicanor, one of the royal
body-guards, viceroy of Cilicia; and in his place among the body-guards he chose Menes,
son of Dionysius. In the room of Prolemy, son of Seleucus, who had been Killed in the
battle, he appointed Polysperchon, son of Simmias, to the’ command of a brigade. He
remitted to the Solians the fifty talents" which were still due of the money imposed on
‘them as a fine, and he gave them back their hostages.

‘Nor did he teat the mother, wife, and children of Darius with neglect; for some of those
Who have written Alexander’ history say that on the very night in which he returned from
the pursuit of Darius, entering the Persian king's tent, which had been selected for his use,
he heard the lamentation of women and other noise of a similar kind not far fromthe tent
Inquiring therefore who the women were, and why they were in a tent so near, he was
answered by some one as follows:—"O king, the mother, wife, and children of Darius are
lamenting for him as slain, since they have been informed that thou hast his bow and his


Page 46, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XIIL

Fucitr or Macepontan Destarens 1st0 Eove—PROCEEDINGS OF AGis, KING OF SPARTA.

ALEXANDER OCCUPIES PHOENICIA.
Danis fled through the night with a few attendants; but inthe daytime, picking up as he
‘went along the Persians and Grecian mercenaries who had come safely out ofthe batl, he
had in all 4,000 men under his command, He then made a forced march towards the city of
‘Thapsacus®” and the river Euphrates," in order to put that river as soon as possible
between himself and Alexander. But Amyntas son of Antiochus, Thymondas son of Mentor,
Aristomedes the Pheraean, and Bianor the Acarnanian, all being deserters, fled without
delay from the posts assigned them in the batle, with about 8,000 soldiers under their
command, and passing through the mountains, they arrived at Tripolis in Phoenicia.””
‘There they seized the ships which had been hauled up on shore in which they had previously
‘been transported from Lesbos; they launched as many of these vessel as they thought
sulficient to convey them, and the rest they burnt there in the docks, in order not to supply
their enemy withthe means of quickly pursuing them. They fled first to Cyprus, thence to
Egypt; where Amyntas shortly after, meddling in political disputes, was Killed by the
natives.

Meantime Phamabazus and Autophradates were staying near Chios; then having
established a gartison in this island they despatched some of their ships to Cos and
Halicarnassus, and with 100 of their best sailing vessels they put to sea themselves and
landed at Siphnus. And Agis, king of the Lacedaemonians,’” came to them with one
‘rireme, both to ask for money to carry on the war, and also t0 urge them to send with him
into the Peloponnese as large a force both naval and military s they could. At that very time
‘news reached them of the battle which had been fought at Issus; and being alarmed at the
report, Phamabazus stared off to Chios with twelve tritemes and 1,500. Grecian
mercenaries, for fear thatthe Chians might attempt to effect a revolution when they received
the news of the Persian defeat. Agis, having received from Autophradates thiety talents of
silver" and ten tritemes, despatched Hippias to lead these ships to his brother Agesilaus at
‘Taenarum,”” ordering him also to instruct Agesilaus to give full pay to the sailors and then


Page 46, Instance 1, Class: Text
royal mantle, and that his shield hes been bronght back.” When Alexander heard this, be

sent Leonnatus." one of is Companions, to them, with injunetions to tll them:—“Darius
is still alive; in his light he left his arms and mantle in the chariot; and these are the only
things of his that Alexander has.” Leonnatus entered the tent and told them the news about
Darius, saying, moreover, that Alexander would allow them to retain the state and retinue
befitting thei royal rank, as well as the ttle of queens; for he had not undertaken the war
against Darius from a feeling of hatred, but he had conducted it in a legitimate manner for
the empire of Asia. Such are the statements of Ptolemy and Aristobulus.”” But there is,
another report, tothe effect that on the following day Alexander himself went into the tent,
accompanied alone by Hephaestion, one of his Companions. The mother of Darius," being
in doubt which of them was the king (for they had both arrayed themselves in the same style
‘of dress), went up to Hephaestion, because he appeared to her the taller of the two, and
prostrated herself before him. But when he drew back, and one of her attendants pointed out
‘Alexander, saying he was the king, she was ashamed of her mistake, and was going to retire.
But the king told her she had made no mistake, for Hephaestion was also an Alexander. This
T record neither being sure of its truth nor thinking it altogether unreliable. If it really
‘occurred, I commend Alexander for his compassionate treatment of the women, and the
confidence he felt in his companion, and the honour bestowed on him; but if it merely
seems probable to historians that Alexander would have acted and spoken thus, even for this
reason I think him worthy of commendation.”


Page 47, Instance 0, Class: Text
surrender to him both the island of Aradus and the great and prosperous city of Marathus,
situated on the mainland right opposite Aradus; also Sigon, the city of Mariamme, and all
‘the other places under his own dominion and that of his father.
CHAPTER XIV.
Danius's Lerti, ap ALEXANDER’S REPLY

Wane Alexander was still in Marathus, ambassadors came bringing a letter from Darius,
centreating him t0 give up 10 their king his mother, wife, and children. They were also
instructed to support this petition by word of mouth. The letter pointed out to him that
friendship and alliance had subsisted between Philip and Artaxerses;"* and that when
‘Arses, son of Artaxerxes, ascended the throne, Philip was the frst practise injustice
towards him, though he had suffered no injury from the Persians. Alexander als, from the
time when Darius began to reign over the Persians, had not sent any one to him to confirm
the friendship and alliance which had so long existed, but had erossed over into Asia with
his army and had inflicted much injury upon the Persians. For this reason he had come
down in person, to defend his country and to preserve the empire of his fathers. AS to the
battle, it had been decided as seemed good to some one of the gods. And now he, aking,
begged his captured wife, mother, and children from a king; and he wished to form a
friendship with him and become his ally. For this purpose he requested Alexander to send
men to him with Meniscus and Arsimas, the messengers who came from the Persians, to
receive pledges of fidelity from him and to give them on behalf of Alexander.

“To this Alexander wrote a reply, and sent Thersippus with the men who had come from
Darius, with instructions to give the letter to Darius, but not 10 converse about anything
‘Alexander's letter ran thus: “Your ancestors came into Macedonia and the rest of Greece
fand treated us ill, without any previous injury from us. 1, having been appointed
commander-in-chief of the Greeks, and wishing to take revenge on the Persians, crossed
‘over into Asia, hostilities being begun by you. For you sent aid to the Perinthians,”* who
‘were dealing unjustly with my father; and Ochus seat forces into Thrace, which was under
‘our rule. My father was killed by conspirators whom you instigated, as you have yourself
boasted to all in your letters;* and afer slaying Arses, as well as Bagoas, and unjustly
seizing the throne contrary tothe law of the Persians.” and ruling your subjects unjustly,
You sent unfriendly letters about me to the Greeks, urging them to wage war with me. You
have also despatched money to the Lacedaemonians, and certain other Greeks; but none of
the States reveived it, except the Lacedaemonians." As your agents destroyed my friends,
and were striving to dissolve the league which I had formed among the Greeks, T took the
field against you, because you were the party who commenced the hostility. Since 1 have
Vanquished your generals and viceroys in the previous battle, and now yourself and your
forces in like manner, ! am, by the gift ofthe gods, in possession of your land. As many of
‘the men who fought in your army as were not killed inthe battle, but fed to me for refuge, 1
‘am protecting; and they are with me, not against theie own will, but they are serving in my


Page 47, Instance 1, Class: Text
to sail as quickly as possible to Crete,” in order to set things in order there. For a time he
himself remained there among the islands, but afterwards joined Auiophradates. at
Halicarnassus.®!

‘Alexander appointed Menon, son of Cerdimmas, viceroy of Coele-Syria,”* giving him
the cavalry of the Grecian allies to guard the country. He then went in person towards
Phoenicia; and on the march he was met by Strato, son of Gerostratus, king of the Aradians
and of the people living near Aradus.™” But Gerostratus himself was serving in the fleet
With Autophradates, as were also the other kings both ofthe Phoenicians and the Cyprian.
When Strato fell in with Alexander, he placed a golden erown upon his head, promising to
surrender to him both the island of Aradus and the great and prosperous city of Marathus,
situated on the mainland right opposite Aradus; also Sigon, the city of Mariamme, and all
‘the other places under his own dominion and that of his father.


Page 48, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘the kingdom, stay and fight another battle for it; but do not run away. For wherever you may
be, [intend to march against you.” This i the letter which he sent to Darius

CHAPTER XV.
ALEXANDER’ TREATMENT OF THE CAPTURED GREEK AMMASSADORS SUBMISSION OF BYBLUS

{AND SIDON.

Waren Alexander ascertained that all the money which Darius had sent off to Damascus
with Cophen, son of Artabazus, was captured, and also that the Persians who had been left
in charge of it, as well asthe test of the royal property, were taken prisoners, he ordered
Parmenio to take the treasure back to Damascus, and there guard it.” When he also
ascertained that the Grecian ambassadors who had reached Darius before the battle had
likewise been captured, he ordered them to be sent to him.” They were Euthycles, a
Spartan; Thessaliseus, son of Ismenias, and Dionysodorus, a vietor in the Olympic games,
‘Thebans; and Iphicrates, son of Iphicrates the general, an Athenian." When these men
came to Alexander, he immediately released Thessaliscus and Dionysodorus, though they
were Thebans, partly out of compassion for Thebes, and partly because they seemed to have
acted in a pardonable manner. For their native eity had been redueed to slavery by the
Macedonians, and they were trying to find whatever suceour they could for themselves and
perhaps also for their native city from Darius and the Persians. Thinking thus
Compassionately about both of them, he released them, saying that he dismissed
‘Thessaliscus individually out of respect for his pedigree, for he belonged to the ranks ofthe
distinguished men of Thebes. Dionysodorus also he released because he had been conqueror
atthe Olympic games; and he kept Iphrirates in attendance on himself as long as he lived,
‘reating him with special honour both from friendship to the city of Athens and from
recollection of his father's glory. When he died soon after from sickness, he sent his bones
back to his relations at Athens. But Euthycles at first he kept in custody, though without
fetters, both because he was a Lacedaemonian of a city at that time openly and eminently
hostile to him, and because in the man as an individual he could find nothing to warrant his
pardon. Afterwards, when he met with great suecess, he released even this man also.

He set out from Marathus and took possession of Byblus"” on terms of capitulation, as
he did also of Sidon,” the inhabitants of which spontaneously invited him from hatred of
the Persians and Darius.*™ Thence he advanced towards Tyre;* ambassadors from which
city, despatched by the commonwealth, met him on the march, announcing thatthe Tyrians
hhad decided to do whatever be might command.” He commended both the eity and its
ambassadors, and ordered them to return and tell the Tyrians that he wished to enter their
city and offer sacrifice to Heracles. The son of the king of the Tyrians was one of the
ambassadors, and the others were conspicuous men in Tyre; but the king Azemileus"”
himself was sailing with Autophradates.


Page 48, Instance 1, Class: Text
you may suffer any harsh treatment from me in case you come to me, send some of your
fiends to receive pledges of safety from me. Come to me then, and ask for your mother,
wife, and children, and anything else you wish. For whatever you ask for you will receive:
‘and nothing shall be denied you. But for the future, whenever you send to me, send to me as
the king of Asia, and do not address to me your wishes as to an equal; but if you are in need
‘of anything, speak to me as to the man who is lord of all your territories. If you act
‘otherwise, I shall deliberate concerning you as an evil-doer; and if you dispute my right to
the kingdom, stay and fight another battle for it; but do not run away. For wherever you may
be, Tintend to march against you.” This is the letter which he sent to Darius.


Page 49, Instance 0, Class: Text
(BEE MN ORSHIB OB MIERCUEES INVER SSS NEEL NIIANS ISEBUSE TO {XD MIT AALEXANDER-
‘Tu reason of this demand was, that in Tyre there existed a temple of Heracles. the most
ancient of all those which are’ mentioned in history. It was not dedicated 10 the Argive
Heracles, the son of Alemena; for this Heracles was honoured in Tyre many generations
before Cadmus set out fom Phoenicia and occupied Thebes, and before Semele, the
daughter of Cadmus, was born, from whom Dionysus, the son of Zeus, was born. This
Dionysus would be third from Cadmus, being a contemporary of Labdacus, son of |
Polydorus, the son of Cadmus; and the Argive Heracles lived about the time of Oedipus, son
‘of Laius.®” The Egyptians also worshipped another Heracles, not the one which either the
‘Tyrians or Greeks worship. But Herodotus says that the Egyptians considered Heracles to be
‘one of the twelve gods," just as the Athenians worshipped a different Dionysus, who was
the son of Zeus and Core; and the mystic chant called Lacchus was sung to this Dionysus,
not to th ligaturee Theban. So also I think thatthe Heracles honoured in Tartessus™ by the
Tberians, where are certain pillars named after Heracles, isthe Tyrian Heracles: for Tartessus
was a colony of the Phetnicians, and the temple to Heracles there was built and the
sacrifices offered after the usage of the Phenicians. Hecataeus the historian’ says
Geryones, against whom the Argive Heracles was despatched by Eurystheus to drive his
‘oxen away and bring them to Mycenae, had nothing to do with the land of the Tberians:""
nor was Heracles despatched to any island called Erythia™ outside the Great Sea; but that |
Geryones was king of the mainland (Epirus) around Ambracia* and the Amphilochians,
that Heracles drove the oxen from this Epirus, and that this was deemed no mean task. 1
‘know that to the present time this part of the mainland is rich in pasture land and rears a
very fine breed of oxen; and I do not think it beyond the bounds of probability that the fame
of the oxen from Epirus, and the name of the king of Epirus, Geryones, had reached
Burystheus. But I do not think that Eurystheus would know the name of the king of the
Iberian, who were the remotest nation in Europe, or whether afine breed of oxen grazed in
their land, unless some one, by introducing Hera into the account, as herself giving these
commands to Heracles through Eurystheus, wished, by means of the fable, to disguise the
increibilty ofthe tale

‘To this Tyrian Heracles, Alexander said he wished to offer sacrifice. But when this
message was brought to Tyre by the ambassadors, the people passed a decree to obey any
‘other command of Alexander, but not to admit into the city any Persian or Macedonian;
‘thinking that under the existing circumstances, this was the most specious answer, and that
it would be the safest course for them to pursue in reference tothe issue of the war, which
was sill uncertain.” When the answer from Tyre was brought to Alexander, he sent the
ambassadors back in a rage. He then summoned a council of his Companions and the
leaders of his army, together with the captains of infantry and cavalry, and spoke as follows:


Page 49, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHAPTER XVIL
‘SPEECH OF ALEXANDER TO ts OFFICERS.

“Friends and allies, [see that an expedition to Egypt will not be safe for us, so long as
the Persians retain the sovereignty of the sea; nor is ita sale course, both for other reasons,
and especially looking at the state of matters in Greece, for us to pursue Darius, leaving in
‘our rear the city of Tyre itself in doubtful allegiance, and Egypt and Cyprus in the
‘occupation of the Persians. I am apprehensive lest while we advance with our forces
towards Babylon and in pursuit of Darius, the Persians should again forsooth conquer the
maritime districts, and transfer the wat into Greece with a larger army, considering that the
Lacedaemonians are now waging war against us without disguise, and the city of Athens is


Page 50, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XVIIL
Strat oF TyRE.—CoNSTRUCTION OF A MOLE FROM THE MAINLAND 10 THE ISLAND.

By this speech he easly persuaded his officers to make an attempt upon Tyre. Moreover he
was encouraged by a divine admonition, for that very night in his sleep” he seemed to be
approaching the Tyrian walls, and Heracles seemed to take him by the right hand and lead
‘him up into the ety. This was interpreted by Aristander™ to mean that Tyre would be taken
With labour, because the deeds of Heracles were aecomplished with labour. Certainly, the
siege of Tyre appeared to be a great enterprise; for the city was an island" and fortified all
round with lofty walls. Moreover naval operations seemed at that time more favourable to
‘the Tyrians, both because the Persians still possessed the sovereignty ofthe sea and many
ships were still remaining with the citizens themselves. However, as these arguments of his
hhad prevailed, he resolved to construct a mole from the mainland tothe ety." The place is
‘narrow strait full of pools; and the part of it near the mainland is shallow water and
muddy, but the part near the city itself, where was the deepest part of the channel, was the
depth of about three fathoms. But there was an abundant supply of stones and wood, which
‘they put on the top of the stones." Stakes were easily fixed down firmly inthe mud, which
itself served as a Cement tothe stones to hold them firm. The 2eal of the Macedonians in the
work was great, and it was increased by the presence of Alexander himself, who took the
lead’! in everything, now rousing the men to exertion by speech, and now by presents of
money, lightening the labour of those who were toiling more than their fellows from the
desire of gaining praise for their exertions. As long as the mole was being constructed near
‘the mainland, the work made easy and rapid progress, as the material was poured into a
small depth of water, and there was no one to hinder them: but when they began to approach
the deeper water, and at the same time came near the city itself, they suffered severely,
being assailed with missiles from the walls, which were lofty, inasmuch as they had been
expressly equipped for work rather than for fighting. Moreover, as the Tyrians still retained
command of the sea, they kept on sailing with their trigemes to various parts of the mole,
land made it impossible in many places for the Macedonians to pour inthe material. But the
latter erected two towers upon the mole, which they had now projected over a long stretch
‘of sea, and upon these towers they placed engines of war. Skins and prepared hides served
as coverings infront of them, to prevent them being struck by fire-bearing missiles from the
Wal, and atthe same time to be a sereen against arrows to those who were working. It was
likewise intended that the Tyrians who might sail near to injure the men engaged in the
construction of the mole should not retire easily, being assailed by missiles from the towers.


Page 50, Instance 1, Class: Text
restrained for the present rather by fear than by any good-will towards us. But if Tyre were
captured, the whole of Phoenicia would be in our possession, and the fleet of the
Phoenicians, which is the most numerous and the best in the Persian navy, would in all
probability come over to us. For the Phoenician sailors and marines will not put to sea in
‘order to incur danger on behalf of others, when their own cities are occupied by us. After
this, Cyprus will either yield 10 us without delay, or will be captured with ease at the mere
arrival of a naval force; and then navigating the sea with the ships ftom Macedonia in
conjunction with those of the Phoenicians, Cyprus at the same time coming over 10 us, we
shall acquire the absolute sovereignty of the sea, and at the same time an expedition into
Egypt will become an easy matter for us. After we have brought Egypt into subjection, no
anxiety about Greece and our own land will any longer remain, and we shall be able to
undertake the expedition to Babylon with safety in regard to aflars at home, and atthe same
time with greater reputation, in consequence of having cut off from the Persian empire all
‘the maritime provinces and all the land this side of the Euphrates.”


Page 51, Instance 0, Class: Text
Bur to counteract this the Tyrians adopted the following contrivance. They filled a vessel,
Which had been used for transporting horses, with dry twigs and other combustible wood,
fixed two masts on the prow, and fenced it round inthe form ofa circle as large as possible,
so that the enclosure might contain as much chaff and as many torches as possible
Moreover they placed upon this vessel quantities of piteh, brimstone, and whatever else was
caleulated to foment a great flame." They also stretched out a double yard-arm upon each
mast; and from these they hung ealdrons into which they had poured or east materials likely
to kindle flame which would extend to a great distance. They then put ballast into the stern,
inorder to raise the prow aloft, the vessel being weighed down abaft." Then watching for a
wind bearing towards the mole, they fastened the vessel to some triremes which towed it
before the breeze. As soon as they approached the mole and the towers, they threw fire
among the wood, and atthe same time ran the vessel, with the triremes, aground as violently
as possible, dashing against the end of the mole. The men inthe vessel easly swam away, aS |
soon as it was set on fire. A great flame soon eaught the towers; and the yard-arms being
twisted round poured out into the fire the materials that had been prepared for kindling the
flame. The men aso in the triremes tarrying near the mole kept on shooting arrows into the
towers, so that it was not safe for men to approach in order to bring materials to quench the
fire. Upon this, when the towers had already eaught fire, many men hastened fom the city,
‘and embarking in light vessels, and striking against various parts of the mole, easily tore
down the stockade which had been placed infront of it for protection, and burnt up all the
engines of war which the fire ftom the vessel did not reach." But Alexander began to
construct a wider mole from the mainland, capable of containing more towers; and he
‘ordered the engine-makers to prepare fresh engines. While this was being performed, he
100k the shield-bearing guards and the Agrianians and set out to Sidon, to collect there all
the triremes be could; since it was evident thatthe successful conclusion of the siege would
‘be much more difficult to attain, so long as the Tyrians retained the superiority at sea."
CHAPTER XX.
‘TyRe BESInGrD my SEA AS WELL AS LAND.

Anovr this time Gerostratus, King of Aradus, and Enylus, King of Byblus, ascertaining that
ther cities were in the possession of Alexander, deserted Autophradates and the fleet under
his command, and came to Alexander with their naval foree, accompanied by the Sidonian 1
‘riremes; so that about eighty Phoenician ships joined him. About the same time triemes
also came to him fom Rhodes, both the one called Peripolus,""” and with it nine others
From Soli and Mallus also came three, and from Lycia ten; from Macedonia also a ship with


Page 51, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHARTER AA,
‘TyRe BESInGrD my SEA AS WELL AS LAND.
Anovr this time Gerostratus, King of Aradus, and Enylus, King of Byblus, ascertaining that
ther cities were in the possession of Alexander, deserted Autophradates and the fleet under
his command, and came to Alexander with their naval foree, accompanied by the Sidonian
‘riremes; so that about eighty Phoenician ships joined him. About the same time triemes
also came to him fom Rhodes, both the one called Peripolus,""” and with it nine others
From Soli and Mallus also came three, and from Lycia ten; from Macedonia also a ship with
fifty oars, in which sailed Proteas, son of Andronicus." Not long after, t00, the kings of
Cyprus put into Sidon with about one hundred and twenty ships, when they heard of the
defeat of Darius at Issus, and were terified, because the whole of Phoenicia was already in
the possession of Alexander. To all of these Alexander granted indemnity for their previous
conduct, because they seemed to have joined the Persian fleet rather by necessity than by
their own choice. While the engines of war were being constructed for him, and the ships
‘were being fitted up for a naval attack on the city and for the tral ofa sea-battle, he took
some squadrons of cavalry, the Agrianians and archers, and made an expedition into the
range of mountains called Anti-Libénus."” Having subdued some of the mountaineers by
force, and drawn others over to him by terms of capitulation, he returned to Sidon in ten


Page 52, Instance 0, Class: Text
Having 4,000 Grecian mercenaries Wit Ain”

When his fleet had been arranged in due order, he embarked upon the decks as many of!
his shield-bearing guards as seemed sufficient for his enterprise, unless a sea-batle were to
‘oe fought rather by breaking the enemy's line than by a close conflict. He then started
from Sidon and sailed towards Tyre with his ships arranged in proper order, himself being
‘on the right wing which stretched out seaward: and with him were the kings of the Cyprians,
and all those ofthe Phoenicians except Paytagoras, who with Craterus was commanding the
left wing of the whole line. The Tyrians had previously resolved to fight a sea-battle, if
Alexander should sail against them by sea. But then with surprise they beheld the vast
multitude of his ships; for they had not yet learnt that Alexander had all the ships of the
‘Cyprians and Phoenicians. At the same time they were surprised to see that he was sailing
‘against them with his fleet arranged in due order; for Alexander's fleet a litle before it came
near the city, tasied fora while out in the open Sea, with the view of provoking the Tyrians
to come out to a battle; but afterwards, as the enemy’ did not put out to sea against them,
‘though they were thus arranged in line, they advanced to the attack with a great dashing of
‘oars, Seeing ths, the Tyrians decided not to fight a battle at sea, but closely blocked up the
passage for ships with as many triremes as the mouths of their harbour would contain, and
‘Ruarded it, so that the enemy’s fleet might not find an anchorage in any of the harbours

‘As the Tyrians did not put out to sea against him, Alexander sailed near the city, but
resolved not 10 ty to foree an entrance into the harbour towards Sidon on account of the
narrowness of its mouth; and at the same time because he saw thatthe entrance had been !
blocked up with many triremes having their prow turned towards him. But the Phoenicians
fell upon the three trtemes moored furthest out at the mouth of the harbour, and attacking
‘them prow to prow, succeeded in sinking them. However, the men inthe ships easily swam
off tothe land which was friendly to them. Then, indeed, Alexander moored his ships along
the shore not far from the mole Which had been made, where there appeared to be shelter
from the winds; and on the following day he ordered the Cyprians with thet ships and their
admiral Andromachus to moor near the eity opposite the harbour which faces towards
Sidon, and the Phoenicians opposite the harbour which looks towards Egypt, situated on the
other side of the mole, where also was his own tent

CHAPTER XXL.
SiGe oF TyRe


Page 52, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXI1.
Swot oF Tyee
He had now collected many engineers both from Cyprus and the whole of Phoenicia, and
many engines of war had been constructed," some upon the mole, others upon vessels used
for transporting horses, which he brought with him from Sidon, and others upon the trremes
Which were not fast salers. When all the preparations had been completed they brought up
the engines of war along the mole that had been made and also began to shoot from ships
moored near various parts of the wall and making trial of its strength. The Tyrians erected
wooden towers on their battlements opposite the mole, ftom which they might annoy the
enemy; and if the engines of war were brought near any other part, they defended
‘themselves with missles and shot atthe very ships with fire-bearing arrows, so that they
deterred the Macedonians from approaching the wall. Their walls opposite the mole were
about one hundred and fifty fet high, with a breadth in proportion, and constructed with
large stones imbedded in gypsum. It was not easy for the horse-transports and the trremes
of the Macedonians, which were conveying the engines of war up to the wall to approach
the city, because a great quantity of stones hurled forward into the sea prevented their near
assault. These stones Alexander determined to drag out of the sea; but this was a work
accomplished with great difficulty, since it was performed from ships and not from the firm


Page 53, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXII
‘SiGe oF Tyt.—Navat. DEreAr OF THE TYRIANS,
Tr happened on that day that Alexander went away to his tent, but after a short time returned
1 his ships, not tarrying according to his usual custom, The Tyrians fell all ofa sudden upon
the ships lying at their moorings, finding some entirely empty and others being filled with
difficulty from the men who happened to be present atthe Very time of the noise and attack.
AL the first onset they at once sank the quinguereme of the king Pnytagoras, that of
Androcles the Amathusiau’* and that of Pasicrates the Curian;'™ and they shattered the
‘other ships by pushing them ashore. But when Alexander perceived the sailing out of the
‘Tyrian tiremes, he ordered most of the ships under his command to be manned and to take
position atthe mouth of the harbour, so that the rest of the Tyrian ships might not sail ou.
Hee then took the quingueremes which he had and about five of the triremes, which were
manned by him in haste before the rest were ready, and sailed round the eity against the
‘Tyrians who had sailed out of the harbour. The men on the wall, perceiving the enemy’s
aitack and observing that Alexander himself was in the flet, began to shout to those in their
‘own ships, urging them to return; but as their shouts were not audible, on account of the
noise of those who were engaged in the action, they exhorted them to retreat by various
kinds of signals. At last after a long time, perceiving the impending attack of Alexander’s
fleet, they tacked about and began to flee into the harbour, and a few of their ships
succeeded in escaping, but Alexander's vessels assaulted the greater number, and rendered
some of them unfit for sailing: and a quinguereme and a quadrireme were captured at the
very mouth of the harbour. But the slaughter of the marines was not great; for when they
perceived that thei ships were in possession of the enemy, they swam off without difficulty
into the harbour, As the Tyrians could no longer derive any aid from their ships, the
Macedonians now brought up their military engines to the wall itself. Those which were
‘brought near the city along the mole, did no damage worth mentioning on account of the


Page 53, Instance 1, Class: Text
anchors of the tritemes, and cutting the cables of the anchors undemeath, made anchoring
impossible for the enemy's ships. But Alexander covered many thirty-oared vessels with
mail in the Same way, and placed them athwart infront of the anchors, so thatthe assault of
the ships was repelled by them. But, notwithstanding ths, divers under the sea secretly cut
their eables. The Macedonians then used chains to their anchors instead of cables, and let
them down so that the divers could do no more harm. Then, fastening slip-knots 10 the
stones, they dragged them out ofthe sea from the mole; and having raised them aloft with
cranes, they discharged them into deep water, where they were no longer likely to do injury
by being hurled forward. The ships now easily approached the part of the wall where it had
‘been made clear of the stones which had been hurled forward. The Tyrians being now
reduced to great straits on all sides, resolved to make an attack on the Cyprian ships, which
were moored opposite the harbour turned towards Sidon. For a long time they spread sails
across the mouth of the harbour, in order that the filling of the triremes might not be
discernible; and about the middle of the day, when the sailors were scattered in quest of |
necessaries, and when Alexander usually retired from the fleet to his tent on the other side
‘of the city, they filled three quingueremes, an equal number of quadriremes and seven
Iriremes with the most expert complement of rowers possible, and with the best-armed men
‘adapted for fighting from the decks, together with the men most daring in naval contests. At
first they rowed out slovily and quietly in single file, moving forward the handles of their
‘oars without any signal from the men who give the lime to the rowers"; but when they
Were already tacking against the Cyprians, and were near enough to be seen, then indeed
With a loud shout and encouragement to each other, and at the same time with impetuous
rowing, they commenced the attack.
CHAPTER XXII


Page 54, Instance 0, Class: Text
Macedonians back.
CHAPTER XXIIL
SiGe oF TyRe

‘Tue third day after this, having waited for a calm sea, after encouraging the leaders of the
regiments for the action, he led the ships containing the military engines up to the city. In
the frst place he shook down a large piece of the wall; and when the breach appeared to be
sulficiently wide, he ordered the vessels conveying the military engines to retite, and
Drought up two others, which carried his bridges, which he intended to throw upon the
breach in the wall. The shield-bearing guards occupied one of these vessels, which he had
pput under the command of Admetus; and the other was occupied by the regiment of Coenus,
called the foot Companions. Alexander himself, with the shield-bearing guards, intended to
seale the wall where it might be practicable. He ordered some of his triremes to sail against
both of the harbours, o see if by any means they could force an entrance when the Tyrians
hhad turned themselves to oppose him. He also ordered those of his triremes which contained
the missiles to be hurled from engines, or which were carrying archers upon deck, to sail
right round the wall and to put in where it was practicable, and to take up position within
shooting range, until it became impossible to put in, so thatthe Tyrians, being shot at from
all quarters, might become distracted, and not know whither to turnin their distress. When
‘Alexander's ships drew close to the city and the bridges were thrown from them upon the!
‘wall, the shield-bearing guards mounted valiantly along these upon the wall; for their
captain, Admetus, proved himself brave on that occasion, and Alexander accompanied them,
both as a courageous participant in the action itself, and as a witness of brilliant and
dangerous feats of valour performed by others. The frst part of the wall that was captured
‘was where Alexander had posted himself; the Tyrians being easily beaten back from it, as
soon as the Macedonians found firm footing, and at the same time a way of entrance not
abrupt on every side. Admetus was the frst to mount the wall; but while cheering on his
men to mount, he was struck with a spear and died on the spot

‘Afier him, Alexander with the Companions got possession of the wall"; and when
some of the towers and the parts of the wall between them were in his hands, he advanced
through the battlements to the royal palace, because the descent into the city that way
seemed the easiest

CHAPTER XXIV.
Capture oF Tya

To retum to the fleet, the Phoenicians posted opposite the harbour looking towards Egypt,


Page 54, Instance 1, Class: Text
strength of the wall there. Others brought up some of the ships conveying military engines
‘opposite the part of the city tured towards Sidon. But when even there they met with no
success, Alexander passed round to the wall projecting towards the south wind and towards
Egypt, and tested the strength of the works everywhere. Here first a large piece of the wall
‘was thoroughly shaken, and a part of it was even broken and thrown down. Then indeed for 1
4 short time he tried to make an assault to the extent of throwing a bridge upon the part of
the wall where a breach had been made. But the Tyrians without much difficulty beat the
Macedonians back.


Page 55, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘what was called the chapel of Agenor,” " they tere turned rownd to resist the Macedomens.
Against these Alexander advanced with his shield-bearing guards, destroyed the men who
fought there, and pursued those who fled. Great was the slaughter also made both by those
Who were now oceupying the city from the harbour and by the regiment of Coenus, which
had also entered it. For the Macedonians were now forthe most part advancing full of rage,
being angry both atthe length of the siege and also because the Tyrians, having captured
some of their men sailing from Sidon, had conveyed them to the top of thei wall, o that the
‘deed might be visible from the camp, and after slaughtering them, had east their bodies into
the sea. About 8,000 of the Tyrians were killed; and of the Macedonians, besides Admetus,
Who had proved himself a valiant man, being the first to scale the wall, twenty of the shield-
bearing guards were killed in the assault on that occasion. In the whole siege about 400
Macedonians were slain. Alexander gave an amnesty tall those who fled for refuge into
the temple of Heracles; among them being most of the Tyrian magistrates, including the
king Azemileus, as well as certain envoys from the Carthaginians, who had come to their
mother-ity to attend the sacrifice in honour of Heracles, according to an ancient custom.”
‘The rest of the prisoners were reduced to slavery; all the Tyrians and mercenary troops, 0
the number of about 30,000, who had been captured, being sold.” Alexander then offered 3
sacrifice to Heracles, and conducted a procession in honour ofthat deity with all his soldiers
fully armed. The ships also took pat in this religious procession in honour of Heracles. He
moreover held a gymnastic contest in the temple, and celebrated a torch race. The military
engine, also, with which the wall had been battered down, was brought into the temple and
dedicated as a thank-offering; and the Tyrian ship sacred to Heracles, which had been
captured in the naval attack, was likewise dedicated to the god. An inscription was placed
‘on it, either composed by Alexander himself or by some one else; but as itis not worthy of
recollection, I have not deemed it worth while to describe it. Thus then was Tyre eaptured in
‘the month Hecatombaion, when Anicetus was archon at Athens.”

CHAPTER XXV.

‘Tu OrreRs oF Darius ResecreD.—Baris, GovrNoR oF Gaz, REFUSES To SUBMIT,
Wane Alexander was still occupied by the siege of Tyre, ambassadors came to him from
Darius, announeing that he would give him ten thousand talents"? in exchange for his
mother, wife, and children; that all the teritory west of the river Euphrates, as far as the
Grecian Sea, should be Alexander's; and proposing that he should marry the daughter of


Page 55, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXV.

‘Tu OrreRs oF Darius ResecreD.—Baris, GovrNoR oF Gaz, REFUSES To SUBMIT,
Wane Alexander was still occupied by the siege of Tyre, ambassadors came to him from
Darius, announeing that he would give him ten thousand talents"? in exchange for his
mother, wife, and children; that all the teritory west of the river Euphrates, as far as the
Grecian Sea, should be Alexander's; and proposing that he should marry the daughter of
Darius, and become his friend and ally."* When these proposals were announced in a
conference of the Companions, Parmenio is said to have told Alexander, that if he were
‘Alexander he should be delighied to put an end to the war on these terms, and incur no
further hazard of success. Alexander is said to have replied, So would he also do, it he were
Parmenio, but as he was Alexander he replied to Darius as he did. For he said that he was
neither in want of money from Darius, nor would he receive a part of his territory instead of
‘the whole; for that all his money and territory were his; and that if he wished to marry the
daughter of Darius, he would marry her, even though Darius refused her to him. He
‘commanded Darius to come to him if he wished to experience any generous treatment from
him, When Darius heard this answer, he despaired of coming to terms with Alexander, and
‘began to make fresh preparations for war.

‘Alexander now resolved to make an expedition into Egypt. All the other parts of what
was called Palestine Syria"™ had already yielded to him; but a certain eunuch, named Batis,
who was in possession of the city of Gaza, paid no heed to him; but procuring Arabian
mercenaries, and having been long employed in laying up sufficient food for a long siege,


Page 56, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXVL.
Sor or Gaza,
‘Gaz is about twenty stades from the sea; the approach to it is sandy and over heavy soil,
and the sea near the city everywhere shallow. The city of Gaza’ was large, and had been
built upon a lofty mound, around which a strong wall had been carried. Its the last city the
traveller meets with going from Phoenicia to Egypt, being situated on the edge of the desert
When Alexander arived near the city, on the first day he encamped at the spot where the
wall seemed to him most easy to assil, and ordered his military engines to be constructed.
But the engineers expressed the opinion tat it was not possible to capture the wall by foree,
‘on account of the height of the mound. However, the more impracticable it seemed to be,
the more resolutely Alexander determined that it must be captured. For he said that the
action would strike the enemy with great alarm from its being contrary to their expectation;
Whereas his failure to capture the place would redound to his disgrace when mentioned
either to the Greeks orto Darius. He therefore resolved to construct a mound right round the
City, so as to be able to bring his military engines up to the walls from the artificial mound
Which had been raised to the same level with them. The mound was constructed especially
‘over against the southern wall of the city, where it appeated easiest to make an assault
When he thought that the mound had been raised to the proper level with the walls, the!
Macedonians placed their military engines upon it, and brought them close to the wall of
Gaza, At this time while Alexander was offering sacrifice, and, crowned with a garland, was
about to commence the first sacred rite according to custom, a certain carnivorous bird,
flying over the altar, let a stone which it was carrying with its claws fall upon his head
‘Alexander asked Aristander, the soothsayer,” what this omen meant. He replied: “O king,
‘thou wilt indeed capture the ety, but thou must take care of thyself on this day.”
CHAPTER XXVIL
Carrure oF Gaza

Wire Alexander heard this, he kept himself for atime near the military engines, out of the
reach of missiles. But when a vigorous sortie was made from the city, and the Arabs were
carying torches to set fire 10 the military engines, and from their commanding position
above hurling missiles at the Macedonians, who were defending themselves from lower
‘round, were driving them down from the mound which they had made, then Alexander
either wilfully disobeyed the soothsayer, oF forgot the prophecy from excitement inthe heat
‘of action, Taking the shield-bearing guards, he hastened to the rescue where the
Macedonians were especially hard pressed, and prevented them from being driven down
from the mound in disgraceful light. But he was himself wounded by a bolt from a catapult,
right through the shield and breasiplate into the shoulder. When he perceived that Arstander
hhad spoken the truth about the wound, he rejoiced, because he thought he should also!
capture the city by the aid of the soothsayer. And yet indeed he was not easly cured of the
Wound. In the meantime the military engines with which he had captured Tyre arrived,
having been sent for by sea; and be ordered the mound to be constructed quite round the city
‘on all sides, two stades'* in breadth and 250 feet in height. When his engines had been
prepared, and brought up along the mound, they shook down a large extent of wall; and


Page 56, Instance 1, Class: Text
EMA EIN AA
Carrure oF Gaza
Wire Alexander heard this, he kept himself for atime near the military engines, out of the
reach of missiles. But when a vigorous sortie was made from the city, and the Arabs were
carying torches to set fire 10 the military engines, and from their commanding position
above hurling missiles at the Macedonians, who were defending themselves from lower
‘round, were driving them down from the mound which they had made, then Alexander
either wilfully disobeyed the soothsayer, oF forgot the prophecy from excitement inthe heat
‘of action, Taking the shield-bearing guards, he hastened to the rescue where the
Macedonians were especially hard pressed, and prevented them from being driven down
from the mound in disgraceful light. But he was himself wounded by a bolt from a catapult,
right through the shield and breasiplate into the shoulder. When he perceived that Arstander
hhad spoken the truth about the wound, he rejoiced, because he thought he should also
capture the city by the aid of the soothsayer. And yet indeed he was not easly cured of the
Wound. In the meantime the military engines with which he had captured Tyre arrived,
having been sent for by sea; and be ordered the mound to be constructed quite round the city
‘on all sides, two stades'* in breadth and 250 feet in height. When his engines had been
prepared, and brought up along the mound, they shook down a large extent of wall: and
‘mines being dug in various places, and the earth being drawn out by stealth, the wall fell


Page 57, Instance 0, Class: Text
down in many parts, subsiding into the emptied space." The Macedonians then
commanded a large extent of ground with their missiles, driving back the men who were
defending the city, from the towers. Nevertheless, the men of the city sustained three
assaults, though many of their number were Killed or wounded; but at the fourth attack,
‘Alexander led up the phalanx of the Macedonians from all sides, threw down the patt of the
Wall which was undermined, and shook down another large portion of it by battering it with
his engines, so that he rendered the assault an easy matter through the breaches with his
scaling ladders, Accordingly the ladders were brought up to the wall; and then there arose a
‘great emulation among those of the Macedonians who laid any claim to valour, o see who
Should be the first to scale the wall. The first to do so was Neoptolemus, one of the
‘Companions, ofthe family of the Aeacidae; and after him mounted one rank after another
With their officers. When once some of the Macedonians got within the wal, they split open
in succession the gates which each party happened to light upon, and thus admitted the
whole army into the city. But though their city was now in the hands of the enemy, the |
Gazaeans nevertheless stood together and fought; so that they were all slain fighting there,
as each man had been stationed. Alexander sold their wives and children into slavery; and
having peopled the city again from the neighbouring setters, he made use of it asa fortified
‘post for the war.”


Page 57, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER |
CCongust oF EavPr:—FOUNDATION OF ALEXANDRIA
AuexanpeR now led an expedition into Egypt, whither he had set out at first (from Tyre)
and marching from Gaza, on the seventh day he arrived at Pelusium’' in Egypt. His fleet
hhad also set sail from Phoenicia to Egypt: and he found the ships already moored at
Pelusium.? When Mazaces the Persian, whom Darius had appointed vieeroy of Egypt."
ascertained how the battle at Issus had tesulted, that Darius had fled in disgraceful flight,
and that Phoenicia, Syria, and most of Arabia were already in Alexander's possession, a8 he
had no Persian force with which he could offer resistance, he admitted Alexander into the
cities and the country ina friendly way." Alexander introduced a garrison into Pelusium, !
and ordering the men in the ships to sail up the river as far as the eity of Memphis," he
‘went in person towards Heliopolis,” having the river Nile™” on his right. He reached that
city through the desert, after getting possession of all the places on the march through the
Voluntary surrender of the inhabitants. Thence he crossed the stream and came to Memphis; |
‘here he offered sacrifice to Apis™* and the other gods, and celebrated a gymnastic and
nusical contest, the most distinguished artists in these matters coming to him from Greece.
From Memphis he sailed down the river towards the sea, embarking the shield-bearing
‘guards, the archers, the Agrianians, and of the cavalry the royal squadron of the
‘Companions. Coming to Canobus,' he sailed round the Marian lake," and disembarked
‘where now is situated the city of Alexandria, which takes its name from him. The position
seemed to him a very fine one in which to found a ety, and he foresaw that it would become
prosperous one." Therefore he was seized by an ardent desire to undertake the enterprise,
and himself marked out the boundaries ofthe city, pointing out the place where the agora
‘was to be constructed, where the temples were to be built, stating how many there were to
‘be, and to what Grecian gods they were to be dedicated, and specially marking a spot for a


Page 58, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER IL
FOUNDATION OF ALEXANDRIA—EVENTS IN THE AEGEAN.

‘Tut following story is told, which seems to me not unworthy of belief:—that Alexander
himself wished to leave behind for the builders the marks for the boundaries of the
fortification, but that there was nothing at hand with which to make a furrow in the ground.
‘One ofthe builders" hit upon the plan of collecting in vessels the barley which the soldiers,
were carrying, and throwing it upon the ground where the king led the way; and thus the
cirele of the fortification which he was making’ for the ety was completely marked out
‘The soothsayers, and especially Avistander the Telmissian, who was said already to have
tgiven many other true predictions, pondering this, told Alexander that the city would
‘become prosperous in every respect, but especially in regard tothe fruits ofthe earth

‘At this time Hegelochus™ sailed to Egypt and informed Alexander thatthe Tenedians
hhad revolted from the Persians and attached themselves to him; because they had gone over
to the Persians against their own wish. He also said that the democracy of Chios were
introducing Alexander's adherents in spite of those who held the city, being established in it
by Autophradates and Phamabazus. The latter commander had been caught there and kept
as a prisoner, as was also the despot Aristonicus, a Methymnaean,."” wo sailed into the
hharbour of Chios with five piratical vessels, fitted with one and a half banks of oars, not
‘knowing that the harbour was in the hands of Alexander's adherents, but being misled by
those who kept the bars of the harbour, because forsooth the fleet of Phamabazus was
moored init, All the pirates were there massacred by the Chians; and Hegelochus brought to.
‘Alexander, as prisoners Aristonicus, Apollonides the Chian, Phisinus, Megareus, and all the
‘others who had taken part in the revolt of Chios to the Persians, and who at that time were
holding the government of the island by force. He also announced that he had deprived
‘Chares"* ofthe possession of Mitylene, that he had brought over the other cities in Lesbos
by a voluntary agreement, and that he had sent Amphoterus to Cos with sixty ships, forthe
‘Coans themselves invited him to their island. He said that he himself had sailed to Cos and
found it already in the hands of Amphoterus. Hegelochus brought all the prisoners with hima
except Pharnabazus, who had eluded his guards at Cos and got away by stealth. Alexander
sent the despots who had been brought from the eities back to ther fellow-citizens, to be
treated as they pleased; but Apollonides and his Chian partisans he sent under a strict guard
to Elephanting, an Egyptian city

CHAPTER IIL
ALEXANDER VistTs THE TEMPLE OF ANBON,

‘Arter these transactions, Alexander was seized by an ardent desire to visit Ammon'® in
Libya, partly in order to consult the god, because the oracle of Ammon was said to be exact
in its information, and Perseus and Heracles were said to have consulted it, the former when
the was despatched by Polydectes™"' against the Gorgons, and the latter, when he visited


Page 58, Instance 1, Class: Text
ALEXANDER VistTs THE TEMPLE OF ANBON,
‘Arter these transactions, Alexander was seized by an ardent desire to visit Ammon'® in
Libya, partly in order to consult the god, because the oracle of Ammon was said to be exact
in its information, and Perseus and Heracles were said to have consulted it, the former when
hhe was despatched by Polydectes" against the Gorgons, and the latter, when he visited
‘Antacus in Libya and Busiris'" in Egypt. Alexander was also partly urged by a desire of
emulating Perseus and Heracles, from both of whom he traced his deseent.°* He also
deduced his pedigree from Ammon, just as the legends traced that of Heracles and Perseus
to Zeus. Accordingly he made the expedition to Ammon with the design of learning his own


Page 59, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘which was a desert, but not destitute of water, a distance of about 1,600 stades. " Thence he
turned into the interior, where the oracle of Ammon was located. The route is desert, and
most of it is sand and destitute of water. But there was a copious supply of rain for
‘Alexander, a thing which was attributed to the influence of the deity; as was also the
following occurrence. Whenever a south wind blows in that distet, it heaps up the sand
upon the route far and wide, rendering the tracks of the road invisible, so that it is
impossible to discover where one ought to direct one’s course in the sand, just as ifone were
at sea; for there are no landmarks along the road, nether mountain anywhere, nor tree, nor
permanent hill standing erect, by which travellers might be able to form a conjecture ofthe
Fight course, as sailors do by the stas.° Consequently, Alexander's army lost the way, and.
‘even the guides were in doubt about the course to take. Ptolemy, son of Lagus, says that two
Serpents went in front of the army, utering a voice, and Alexander ordered the guides to
follow them, trusting in the divine portent. He says too that they showed the way to the
‘oracle and back again. But Aristobulus, whose account is generally admited as eorect, says
that wo ravens flew in front of the army, and that these acted as Alexander's guides. 1 am
able to assert with confidence that some divine assistance was afforded him, for probability
also coincides with the supposition; but the discrepancies in the details’ of the various
narratives have deprived the story of certainty."

u
CHAPTER IV.
‘Ta Oasis oF AMON.

‘Tur place where the temple of Ammon is located is entirely surrounded by a desert of far-
stretching sand, which is destitute of water. The fertile spot in the midst of tis desert, is not
extensive; for where it stretches into its greater expanse, itis only about forty stades
broad." Its full of cultivated trees, olives and palms; and it isthe only place in those parts
Which is refreshed with dew. A spring also rises fom it, quite unlike all the other springs,
‘hich issue from the earth." For at midday the water is cold tothe taste, and still more so
to the touch, a cold as cold can be. But when the sun has sunk into the west, it gets warmer,
and from the evening it keeps on growing warmer until midnight, when it reaches the
‘warmest point. After midnight it goes on geiting gradually colder; at daybreak it s already
cold; but at midday it reaches the coldest point. Every day it undergoes these altemate
changes in regular suecession. In this place also natural sat is procured by digging, and
certain of the priests of Ammon convey quantities of it into Egypt. For whenever they set
‘out for Egypt they put i into litle boxes plated out of palm, and carry it as a present to the
king, or some other great man. The grains of this salt are large, some of them being even
longer than three fingers’ breadth; and itis clear lke erystal™’ The Egyptians and others
‘who are respectfil to the deity, use this salt in their sacrifices, as itis clearer than that which 4
is procured from the sea. Alexander then was struck with wonder atthe place, and consulted
the oracle of the god. Having heard what was agreeable to his wishes, as he himself said, he
set out on the journey back to Egypt by the same route, according to the statement of
Aristobulus; but aecording to that of Ptolemy, son of Lagus, he took another road, leading
straight to Memphis."


Page 59, Instance 1, Class: Text
origin more certainly, or at least that he might be able to say that he had teamed it.
‘According to Aristobulus, he advanced along the seashore to Paratonium through a county
‘which was a desert, but not destitute of water, distance of about 1,600 stades."* Thence he
tumed into the interior, where the oracle of Ammon was located. The route is desert, and
most of it is sand and destitute of water. But there was a copious supply of rain for
‘Alexander, a thing which was attributed to the influence of the deity: as was aso the
following occurrence. Whenever a south wind blows in that district, i heaps up the sand
upon the route far and wide, rendering the tacks of the road invisible, so that itis
impossible to discover where one ought to direct one's course inthe sand, just as if one were
at sea: for there are no landmarks along the road, nether mountain anywhere, nor tee, nor
permanent hill standing erect, by which travellers might be able to form a conjeture ofthe
Fight cours, as sailors do by the stats.* Consequently, Alexanders army lost the way, and
even the guides were in doubt about the course to take. Ptolemy, on of Lagus, says that two
Serpents went in front of the army, uttering a voice, and Alexander ordered the guides to
follow them, trusting in the divine portent. He says too that they showed the way to the
‘oracle and back again, But Aistobulls, whose account is generally admitted as correct, says
that two ravens flew in ffont ofthe army, and that these acted as Alexanders guides. Iam
able to assert with confidence that some divine assistance was afforded hi, for probability
also coincides with the supposition; but the discrepancies in the details of the various
narratives have deprived the story of certainty.”


Page 60, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘At Memphis, many embassies from Greece reached him; and he sent away no one
disappointed by the rejection of his suit. From Antipater also arrived an army of 400
Grecian mezcenaries under the command of Menidas, son of Hegesander: likewise from
‘Thrace S00 cavalry, under the dtection of Asclepiodorus, son of Eunicus. Here he offered
sacrifice o Zeus the King, led his soldiers fully armed in solemn procession, and celebrated
4 gymnastic and musical contest. He then setled the affairs of Egypt, by appointing two
Egyptians, Doloaspis and Petiss, governors of the county, dividing between them the
‘whole land; but as Petisis declined his province, Doloaspis received the whole. He
appointed two of the Companions to be commandants of garisons: Pantaleon the Pydnaean
in Memphis, and Polemo, son of Megacles, a Pellaean, in Pelusium. He also gave the
command ofthe Grecian auxiliaries to Lycidas, an Actolian, and appointed Eugnostus, son
‘of Xenophantes, one of the Companions, to be secretary over the same troops. As their
‘overseers he placed Aeschlus and Ephippus the Chaleidean, The government of the
neighbouring country of Libya he granted to Apollonius, son of Charinus; and the part of
‘Arabia near Herodpolis"® he put under Cleomenes, a man of Naveratis.”" This last was
‘ordered to allow the governors to rule thir respective districts according to the ancient
custom; but to collect from them the tbute due to him. The native governors were also
‘ordered to pay ito Cleomenes. He appointed Peucestas, son of Macartats, and Balacrs,
son of Amyntas, generals ofthe army which he left behind in Egypt; and he placed Polemo,
son of Theramenes, over the fleet as aia He made Leonnatus, son of Anteas, one of his
‘body-guards instead of Arehybas, who had died of disease. Antiochus, the commander ofthe
archers, also died; and in his stead Ommbrion the Cretan was appointed, When Balacrus was
left behind in Egypt, the allied Grecian infantry, which bad been under his command, was
put under that of Calanus. Alexander was said to have divided the government of Egypt
‘among so many men, because he was surprised at the natural strength ofthe country, and be
‘thought it unsafe to entrust the rule of the whole toa single person. The Romans also seem
to:me to have leamed a lesson from him, and therefore keep Egypt under strong guard; for
they do not send any of the senators thither as proconsul for the same reason, but only men
‘who have the rank among them of Equites (Knights).

CHAPTER VL
‘Mancut 110 Sata. ALEXANDER'S KINDNESS TO HARDALUS AND IS OTTER EARLY
ADHERENTS
As soon as spring began to appear, he went from Memphis to Phoenicia, bridging the stream
‘of the Nile near Memphis, as wel as th canals issuing from it. When he arzved at Tyre, he
found his fleet already there." In ths city he again offered sactifice to Heracles, and
celebrated both a gymnastic and musical contest. While there, the state vessel called the
‘Paralus came to him fom Athens, bringing Diophantus and Achilleus as envoys to him; and
all the erew ofthe Paralus were joined with them inthe embassy." These men obtained al
the requests which they were despatched to make, and the king gave up tothe Athenians al
their fellow-citizens who had been captured at the Granicus."” Being informed that
revolutionary plans had been caried out inthe Peloponnese, he sent Ampoterus thither to
assist those of the Peloponnesians who were firm in their support of his War against Persia,
‘and were not under the control of the Lacedaemonians, He also commanded the Phoenicians


Page 60, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘thought it unsafe to entrust the rule of the whole to a single person. The Romans also seem
tome have leamed a lesson from hit, and therefore keep Egypt under strong guard for
‘who have the rank among them of Equites (Knights).°"*

F

CHAPTER VL

‘As soon as sping began o appear, he went from Memphis to Phoenicia, bridging he stream
ofthe Nile neat Memphis, as well asthe canals issuing from it. When be avd at Te, he
found his fleet already there."”* In this city he again offered sacrifice to Heracles, and
Celebrated both a gymnastic and musical conte While there, te sat vessel ealled the
all the crew of the Paralus were joined with them in the embassy.?" These men obtained all
the requests which they were despatched to make, and the king gave upto the Athenians all
their fellow-citizens who had been captured at the Granicus.””” Being informed that
revolutionary plans had been ciried out nthe Peloponnese, he sent Ampotrus thither to
fd were not under te contol of the Lacedaemonians He also commanded the Phoenicians
and Cyprian to despatch tothe Peloponnese 100 other ships in addition to those which he
tas sending with Anphotens, He ow started up ite the iter towards Thapsacis and 1S
the river Euphrates, afer placing Coeranus, a Beroean’”® over the levy of tribute in
Phoenicia, nd Philoxenus wo collect itn Asi as fr asthe Taurus Inthe plate ofthese men
he entrusted the custody of the money which he had with him to Harpalus, son of Machatas,
Sahil preieiedaennery Selleteieten Abvineselenrne-halierebedtion: aries karen aniensinnntd


Page 61, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER VIL
PASSAGE OF THE EUPHRATES AND TIGRIS,
AuexanpeR arrived at Thapsacus in the month Hecatombaion,"* in the archonship of
“Aristophanes at Athens; and he found that two bridges of boats had been constructed over
the stream. But Mazaeus, to whom Darius had committed the duty of guarding the river,
with about 3,000 cavalry, 2,000 of which were Grecian mercenaries, was up t0 that time
keeping guard there atthe river. For this reason the Macedonians had not constructed the
complete bridge as far as the opposite bank, being affaid that Mazacus might make an
assault upon the bridge where it ended. But when he heard that Alexander was approaching,
the went ofF in flight with all his army. As soon as he had fled, the bridges were completed as
far as the further bank, and Alexander crossed upon them with his army."" Thence he
marched up into the interior through the land called Mesopotamia, having the river
Euphrates and the mountains of Armenia on his left. When he started feom the Euphrates he
id not march to Babylon by the direct road; because by going the other route be found all
things easier for the march of his army, and it was also easier to obtain fodder forthe horses,
and provisions forthe men from the country. Besides this, the heat was not so scorching on
the indirect route, Some of the men from Darius’s army, who were dispersed forthe purpose
‘of scouting, were taken prisoners; and they reported that Darius was encamped near the
river Tigts, having resolved to prevent Alexander from crossing that stream. They also said
that he had a much larger army than that with which he had fought in Cilicia. Heating this,
‘Alexander went with all speed towards the Tigris; but when be reached it he found neither
Darius himself nor any guard which he had left. However he experienced great difficulty in
crossing the stream, on account ofthe swiftness of the current, though no one tried to stop
him. There be made his army rest, and while so doing, an eclipse of the moon neatly total
‘occurred. Alexander thereupon offered sacrifice to the moon, the sun and the earth, whose
‘deed this was, according to common report. Arstander thought that this eclipse of the moon
was a portent favourable to Alexander and the Macedonians; that there would be a batle
that very month, and that victory for Alexander was signified by the sacrificial vietims.


Page 61, Instance 1, Class: Text
still king, because he was an adherent of Alexander; as also was Ptolemy, son of Lagus, for
the same reason; likewise Nearchus, son of Androtimus, Erigyius, son of Larichus, and his
brother Laomedon. For Alexander fell under Philip's suspicion’ when the latter martied
Eurydice™” and treated Alexander's mother Olympias with dishonour. But after Philips
death those who had been banished on Alexander's account returned from exile and were
received into favour. He made Prolemy one of his confidential body-guards; he placed
Harpalus over the money, because his bodily strength was unequal to the fatigues of war.
Erigyius was made commander of the allied Grecian cavalry; and his brother Laomedon,
because he could speak both the Greek and Persian languages and could read Persian
writings, was putin charge ofthe foreign prisoners. Nearchus also was appointed viceroy of
Lycia and of the land adjacent to it as far as mount Taurus. But shortly before the batle
Which was fought at Issus, Harpalus fell under the influence of Tauriscus, an evil man, and
fled in his company. The latter started off to Alexander the Epirote™ in Italy, where he soon !8
after died. But Harpalus found a refuge in Megaris, whence however Alexander persuaded
him to return, giving him a pledge that he should be none the worse on account of his
desertion. When he came back, he not only received no punishment, but was even reinstated
inthe office of treasurer. Menander, one of the Companions, was sent away into Lydia as
Viceroy; and Clearchus was put in command of the Grecian auxiliaries who had been under
Menander. Asclepiodorus, son of Eunicus, was also appointed viceroy of Syria instead of
‘Arimmas, because the latter seemed to have been remiss in collecting the supplies which he
hhad been ordered to collect for the army which the king was about to lead into the interior.


Page 62, Instance 0, Class: Text
Gad not seer to them to be more than 1,000 in number,
CHAPTER VIIL
DescRiPTion oF DaRivs's ARMY AT ARBELA.
‘AuexanpeR therefore took the royal squadron of cavalry, and one squadron of the
‘Companions, together with the Paconian scouts, and marched with al speed; having ordered
the rest of his army to follow at leisure. The Persian cavalry, seeing Alexander advancing
‘quickly, began to flee with all their might. Though he pressed close upon them in pursuit,
most of them escaped; but a few, whose horses were fatigued by the flight, were slain,
‘others were taken prisoners, horses and all. From these they ascertained that Darius with a
large foree was not far off. For the Indians who were conterminous with the Bactrans, as. 1S
also the Bactrians themselves and the Sogdianians had eome to the aid of Darius, all being
under the command of Bessus, the viceroy of the land of Bactria, They were accompanied
by the Sacians, a Scythian tribe belonging to the Seythians who dwell in Asia.” These
‘were not subject to Bessus, but were in alliance with Darius. They were commanded by
Mavaces, and were horse-bowmen. Barsaéntes, the viceroy of Arachotia, led the
Arachotians' and the men who were called mountaineer Indians. Satibarzanes, the viceroy
fof Arvia, led the Arcians," as did Phrataphernes the Parthians, Hyrcanians, and
‘Taputians," all of whom were horsemen. Atropates commanded the Medes, with whom
‘were arrayed the Cadusians, Albanians, and Sacesinians.""' The men who dwelt near the
Red Sea” were marshalled by Ocondobates, Ariobarzanes, and Otanes. The Uxians and
Susianians"” acknowledged Oxathres son of Aboulites as their leader, and the Babylonians
‘were commanded by Boupares. The Carians who had been deported into central Asia, and 1
the Sitacenians™ had been placed in the same ranks as the Babylonians. The Armenians
‘were commanded by Orontes and Mithraustes, and the Cappadocians by Ariaces. The
Syrians from the vale between Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon (i. Coele-Syria) and the men of
Syria which les between the rivers" were led by Mazaeus. The whole army of Darius was
said to contain 40,000 cavalry, 1,000,000 infantry, and 200 seythe-bearing chariots." There
‘were only a few elephants, about fifteen in number, belonging to the Indians who live this,
side of the Indus.” With these forces Darius had encamped at Gaugamela, near the river
Bumodus, about 600 stades distant from the ety of Arbela, ina district everywhere level:”*
for whatever ground thereabouts was unlevel and unfit for the evolutions of cavalry, had
long before been levelled by the Persians, and made fit for the easy rolling of chaviots and
for the galloping of horses. For there were some who persuaded Darius that he had forsooth
‘got the worst of it in the battle fought at Issus, from the narrowness of the battlefield; and 15
this he was easily induced to believe
CHAPTER Tx


Page 62, Instance 1, Class: Text
Having therefore decamped from the Tigris, he went through the land of Aturia,™ having
‘the mountains of the Gordyacans™® on the left and the Tigris itself on the right; and on the
fourth day after the passage of the river, his scouts brought word to him that the enemy"s
cavalry were visible there along the plain, but how many of them there were they could not
‘guess. Accordingly he drew his army up in order and advanced prepared for batle. Other
Scouts again riding forward and taking more accurate observations, told him that the cavalry
didnot seem to them to be more than 1,000 in number.


Page 63, Instance 0, Class: Text
NVHEN 2MOXATIGSE DACUTECEINER® QS ENS HVTORTGEOR TOBY TAG PEESIAR SCOUTS Wile mac been
captured, he remained four days in the place where he had received the news; and gave his
army rest after the march. He meanwhile fortified his eamp with a ditch and stockade, as he
intended to leave behind the baggage and all the soldiers who were unfit for fighting, and to
+o into the contest accompanied by his watriors carrying with them nothing except their
weapons. Accordingly he took his forces by night, and began the march about the second
watch, in order to come into collision withthe foreigners at break of day. As soon as Darius
was informed of Alexander's approach, he at once drew out his army for batle: and
‘Alexander led on his men drawn up in like manner. Though the armies were only sixty
stades™” from each other, yet they were not in sight of each other, for between the hostile
forces some hills intervened. But when Alexander was only thirty stades distant from the
enemy, and his army was already marching down from the hills just mentioned, catching
sight of the foreigners, he caused his phalanx to halt there. Calling a council of the
‘Companions, generals, cavalry officers, and leaders of the Grecian allies and mercenaries,
he deliberated with them, whether he should at once lead on the phalanx without delay, as
most of them urged him to do: of, whether, as Parmenio thought preferable, to pitch their
tens there forthe present, to reconnoitre all the ground, in order to see if there was anything 15%
there to excite suspicion orto impede their progress, or if there were ditches or stakes firmly
fixed in the earth out of sight, as well as to make @ more accurate survey of the enemy"s
tactical arrangements. Parmenio’s opinion prevailed, so they encamped there, drawn up in
the order in which they intended to enter the battle” But Alexander took the light infantry
and the cavalry Companions and went all round, reconnoitring the whole country where he
was about to fight the battle. Having returned, he again called together the same leaders, and
said that they did not require to be encouraged by him to enter the contest; for they had been
long before encouraged by their own valour, and by the gallant deeds which they had
already so often achieved. He thought it expedient that each of them individually should stir
up his own men separately the infantry captain the men of his company, the cavalry eaptain
his own squadron, the brigadiers their various brigades, and each of the leaders of the
infantry the phalans entrusted to im. He assured them that inthis battle they were going to
fight, not as before, either for Coele-Syria, Phoenicia, or Egypt, but for the whole of Asia
For he said this battle would decide who were to be the rulers of that continent. It was not
necessary for hi to stir them up to gallant deeds by many words, since they had this valour
bby nature; but they should see that each man took care, so far as in him lay, to preserve
discipline in the ertical moment of action, and to Keep perfect silence when it was expedient
to advance in silence. On the other hand, they should see that each man uttered a sonorous
shout, where it would be advantageous to shout, and to raise as terrible a battle-cry as
possible, when a suitable opportunity occurred of raising te battle-cry He told them to take
care to obey his onders as quickly as possible, and to transmit the ordets they had received to
‘the ranks with all rapidity; each man remembering that both as an individual and in the 159
aggregate he was increasing the general danger ithe was remiss inthe discharge of his duty,
and that he was assisting to gain a vietory if he zealously put forth his utmost exertions

CHAPTER X.
Rrsrcriow oF ParMento’s ADvict
Worn these words and others like them he briefly exhorted his officers, and in return was
exhorted by them to feel confidence in their valour. He then ordered the soldiers to take
dinner and to rest themselves. It is sid that Parmenio came to him in his tent, and urged him


Page 64, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XI.
Tactics OF THE OPFOSING GENERALS.

Darius and his army remained drawn up during the night inthe same order as that in which
they had first arayed themselves; because they had not surrounded themselves with a
completely entrenched camp, and, moreover, they were afaid thatthe enemy would attack
them in the night. The suceess ofthe Persians, on this occasion, was impeded especially by
this long standing on wateh with their arms, and by the fear which usually springs up before
‘reat dangers; which, however, was not then suddenly aroused by a momentary panic, but
hhad been experienced for a long time, and had thoroughly cowed theie spirits. The army
‘of Darius was drawn up in the following manner: for, aecording to the statement of
Aristobulus, the written scheme of arrangement drawn up by Darius was afterwards |
captured. His left wing was held by the Bactrian cavalry, in conjunetion with the Daans‘”
land Arachotians: near these had been posted the Petsians, horse and foot mixed together;
next to these the Susians, and then the Cadusians. This was the arrangement of the lft wing,
as far as the middle of the whole phalanx. On the right had been posted the men from Coele-
Syria and Mesopotamia. On the right again were the Medes: next to them the Parthians and
Sacians; then the Tapurians and Hyreanians, and last the Albanians and Sacesinians,
extending as far as the middle of the whole phalanx. In the centre where King Darius was,
hhad been posted the king’s Kinsmen, the Persian guards carrying spears with golden
apples atthe butt end, the Indians, the Carians who had been forcibly removed to Central
‘Asia, and the Mardian archers. The Uxians, the Babylonians, the men who dwvell near the
Red Sea, and the Sitacenians had also been drawn up in deep column. On the left, opposite
‘Alexander's right, had been posted the Scythian cavalry, about 1,000 Bactians and 100,
seythe-bearing chariots. In front of Darius’s royal squadron of cavalry stood the elephants
and 50 chariots. In front of the right wing the Armenian and Cappadocian cavalry with $O
seythe-bearing chariots had been posted. The Greek mercenaries, as lone capable of coping
With the Macedonians, were stationed right opposite their phalanx, in two divisions close |
‘beside Darius himself and his Persian attendants, one division on each side.*”

‘Alexander's army was marshalled as follows: The right wing was held by the cavalry
‘Companions, in feoat of whom had been posted the royal squadron, commanded by Clitus,
son of Dropidas. Near this was the squadron of Gilaucias, next to it that of Aristo, then that
‘of Sopolis, son of Hermodorus, then that of Heracides, son of Antiochus. Neat this was that


Page 64, Instance 1, Class: Text
any artifice. This vawnting Cid not appeer amy arrogance on his part, but rather to indicate
self-confidence amid dangers. To me at any rate, he seems to have used correct reasoning in
such a matter. For in the night many accidents have occurred unexpectedly to those who
were sulficiently prepared for battle as well as to those who were deficently prepared,
Which have eaused the superior party to fail in their plans, and have handed the vietory over
to the inferior party, contrary to the expectations of both sides. Though Alexander was
‘generally fond of encountering danger in batle, the night appeared to him perilous; and,
besides, if Darius were again defeated, a furtive and noctural attack on the part of the
Macedonians would relieve him of the necessity of confessing that he was an inferior
‘general and commanded inferior troops. Moreover, if any unexpected defeat befell his army,
the circumjacent country was friendly to the enemy, and they were acquainted with the
locality, whereas the Macedonians" were unacquainted with it, and surrounded by nothing
but foes, of whom there were a great number prisoners. These would be a great source of
anxiety, a8 they: would be likely to assist in attacking them in the night, ot only if they
should meet with defeat, but even if they did not appear to be gaining a decisive victory. For
this way of reasoning I commend Alexander; and I think him no less worthy of admiration
for his excessive desire to fight in open daylight.


Page 65, Instance 0, Class: Text
Dearing guards, and then the rest of the shield-bearing-guards, under the command of
‘Nicanor, son of Parmenio. Next to these was the brigade of Coenus, son of Polemocrates;
after these that of Perdiceas, son of Orontes, then that of Meleager, son of Neoptolemus,
‘then that of Polysperchon "son of Simmias, and last that of Amyntas, son of Andromenes,
under the command of Simmias, because Amyntas had been despatched to Macedonia to
levy an army. The brigade of Craterus, son of Alexander, held the left end of the
Macedonian phalanx, and this general commanded the left wing ofthe infantry.” Next to
hhim was the allied Grecian cavalry, under the command of Erigyius, son of Larichus. Next
to these, towards the left wing ofthe army, were the Thessalian cavalry, under the command
‘of Philip, son of Menelais. But the whole left wing was led by Parmenio, son of Philotas,
round whose person were ranged the Pharsalian horsemen, who were both the best and most
numerous squadron of the Thessalian cavalry

CHAPTER XIL
Auexanpen’s Tactics,

Iw this way had Alexander marshalled his army in front; but he also posted a second array,
so that his phalanx might be a double one.” Directions had been given to the commanders
of these men posted in reserve, to wheel round and receive the attack of the foreigners, if
they should see their own comrades surrounded by the Persian army. Next t0 the royal
squadron on the right wing, half of the Agrianians, under the command of Attalus, in
Conjunction with the Macedonian archers under Briso's command, were posted angular-
wise (ie. in such a way thatthe wings were thrown forward at an angle with the centre, so
as to take the enemy in flank) in ease they should be seized anyhow by the necessity of
folding back the phalanx or of closing it up (ce. of deepening it by countermarching from
front to rear). Next to the archers were the men called the veteran mercenaries, whose
commander was Cleander. In front of the Agrianians and archers were posted the light
cavalry used for skirmishing, and the Paeonians, under the command of Aretes and Aristo.
In front of all had been posted the Grecian mercenary cavalry under the direction of
Menidas; and in front of the royal squadron of cavalry and the other Companions had been
posted half of the Agrianians and archers, and the javelin-men of Balacrus who had been
ranged opposite the scythe-bearing chariots Instructions had been given to Menidas and the
‘oops under him to wheel round and attack the enemy in flank, if they should ride round
their wing. Thus had Alexander arranged matters on the right wing. On the left the
‘Thracians under the command of Sitalees had been posted angular-wise, and near them the
cavalry of the Grecian allies, under the direction of Coeranus. Next stood the Odeysian
cavalry, under the command of Agatho, son of Tyrimmas. In this par, in fot of all, were
posted the auxiliary cavalry of the Grecian mercenaries, under the direction of
‘Andromachus, son of Hiero. Near the baggage the infantry from Thrace were posted as a
‘guard, The whole of Alexander's army numbered 7,000 cavalry and about 40,000 infantry.


Page 65, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘of Demetrius, son of Althaemenes, then that of Meleager, and last one of the royal
squadrons commanded by Hegelochus, son of Hippostatus. All the cavalry Companions
were under the supreme command of Philots, son of Parmenio. OF the phalanx of
Macedonian infantry, nearest othe cavalry had been poste first the select corps of shild-
bearing guards, and then the rest of the shield-bearing-guards, under the command of
Nicanor, son of Parmenio. Next to these was the brigade of Coenus, son of Polemocrates;
aler these that of Perdiceas, son of Oroates, then that of Meleager son of Neoptolemus,
then that of Polysperchon, son of Simmias, and last hat of Amntas, son of Andromenes,
under the command of Simmias, because Amyntas had been despatched to Macedonia to
levy an army. The brigade of Crateris, son of Alexander, held the left end of the
Macedonian phalanx, and this general commanded the left wing of the infantry” Next to
hhim was the allied Grecian cavalry, under the command of Erigyius, son of Larichus. Next
to these, towards the left wing ofthe army, were the Thessalian cavalry, under the command
of Philip, son of Menelais. Bu the whole left wing was led by Parmeni, son of Philoas,
round whose person were ranged the Pharsalian horsemen, who were both the best and most
numerous squadeon ofthe Thessalian cavaly


Page 66, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘the apple-bearing Persians, the Indians, the Albanians, the Carians who had been forcibly
‘ansported into Central Asia, the Mardian archers ranged opposite Alexander himself and
his royal squadron of cavalry: Alexander led his own army more towards the right, and the
Persians marched along parallel with him, far outflanking him upon their left" Then the
Scythian cavalry rode along the line, and came into conflict with the front men of |
‘Alexander's array; but he nevertheless still continued to march towards the right, and almost
entirely got beyond the ground which had been cleared and levelled by the Persians.“ Then
Darius, fearing that his chariots would become useless, if the Macedonians advanced into
uneven ground, ondered the front ranks of his left wing t ride round the right wing of the
Macedonians, where Alexander was commanding, to prevent him from marching his wing
any further. This being done, Alexander ordered the cavalry of the Grecian mercenaries
under the command of Menidas to attack them. But the Seythian cavalry and the Bactrians,
who had been drawn up with them sallied forth against them, and being much more
numerous they put the small body of Greeks to rout. Alexander then ordered Aristo at the
hhead of the Paconians and Grecian auxiliaries to attack the Seythians; and the barbarians
gave way. But the rest of the Bactrians drawing near to the Paconians and Grecian
auxiliaries, caused their own comrades who were already in flight to turn and renew the
battle; and thus they brought about a general cavalry engagement, in which many of
‘Alexander's men fell not only being overwhelmed by the multitude of the barbarians, but
also because the Seythians themselves and their horses were much more completely
protected with armour for guarding their bodies" Notwithstanding this, the Macedonians
sustained their assaults, and assaling them violently squadron by squadron, they succeeded
in pushing them out of rank. Meantime the foreigners launched thei seythe-bearing chariots
against Alexander himself, for the purpose of throwing his phalanx into confusion: but in 1
this they were grievously deceived. For as soon as some of them approached, the Agrianians
and the javelin-men with Balacrus, who had been posted in front of the Companion cavalry,
Inurled their javelins at them; others they seized by the reins and pulled the drivers off, and
standing round the horses killed them. Yet some rolled right through the ranks; for the men
stood apart and opened their ranks, as they had been instructed, in the places where the
chariots assaulted them. In this way it generally happened that the chariots passed through
safely, and the men by whom they were driven were uninjured. But these also were
afterwards overpowered by the grooms of Alexander's army and by the royal shield-bearing
‘guards.
CHAPTER XIV.
Barttr oF ARari.a.—Fuicir or Daw

‘As soon as Darius began to set his whole phalanx in motion, Alexander ordered Aretes to
attack those who were riding completely round his right wing: and up to that time he was
himself leading his men in columa. But when the Persians had made a break inthe front line
of their army, in consequence of the cavalry sallying forth to assist those who were
surrounding the right wing, Alexander wheeled round towards the gap, and forming a wedge
‘as it were of the Companion cavalry and of the part of the phalanx which was posted here.


Page 66, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘chariots assaulted them. In this way it generally happened that the chariots passed through
safely, and the men by whom they were driven were uninjured. But these also were
afterwards overpowered by the grooms of Alexander's army and by the royal shield-bearing
‘guards.
CHAPTER XIV.
Barttr oF ARari.a.—Fuicir or Daw

‘As soon as Darius began to set his whole phalanx in motion, Alexander ordered Aretes to
attack those who were riding completely round his right wing: and up to that time he was
himself leading his men in columa. But when the Persians had made a break inthe front line
of their army, in consequence of the cavalry sallying forth to assist those who were
surrounding the right wing, Alexander wheeled round towards the gap, and forming a wedge
as it were of the Companion cavalry and of the pat ofthe phalanx which was posted here,
hie led them with a quick charge and loud battle-cry straight towards Darius himself. For 3
short time there ensued a handcto-hand fight; but when the Macedonian cavaly,
commanded by Alexander himself, pressed on vigorously, thrusting themselves against the  !
Persians and striking theie faces with their spears, and when the Macedonian phalanx in
dense array and bristling!" with long pikes had also made an attack upon them, all things at
‘once appeared full of terror to Darius, who had already long been in a state of fear, so that
‘the was the first to turn and flee *!® The Persians also who were riding round the wiag were


Page 67, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘to the first phalanx, learning what was taking place, quickly moved from the position which
they had been ordered to take, and coming upon the Persians in the rear, Killed many of
them there collected round the baggage. But the rest of them gave way and fled. The
Persians on the right wing, who had not yet become aware of the flight of Darius, rode
round Alexander’ left wing and attacked Parmenio in flank.‘
CHAPTER XV.
Dever or THe PERSIANS AND Pursurr oF Danis

‘Ar this juncture, while the Macedonians were doubtful as t0 the result of the battle,
Parmenio sent a messenger to Alexander in haste, to tell him that their side was ina ertical
position and that he must send him aid.®° When this news was brought to Alexander, he
immediately tumed back again from the pursuit, and wheeling round with the Companion
cavalry, led them with great speed against the right wing of the foreigners. In the frst place
he assaulted the fleeing cavalry of the enemy, the Parthians, some of the Indians, and the
most numerous and the bravest division of the Persians. Then ensued the most obstinately
contested cavalry fight in the whole engagement. For being drawn up by squadrons as it
were, the foreigners wheeled round and falling on Alexander's men face to face, they no
longer relied on the hurling of javelins or the dexterous deploying of horses, as is the
common practice in cavalry battles, but every one on his own account strove eagerly to
‘break through what stood in his way, as if this were their only means of safety. They struck
and were struck without quarter, as if they were no longer struggling to secure the victory
for another, but were contending for their own personal safety. Here about sixty of
‘Alexander's Companions fell; and Hephaestion himself, as well as Coenus and Menidas,
was wounded. But even these troops were overcome by Alexander; and as many of them as
could force their way through his ranks fled with all their might. And now Alexander had
nearly come into conflict with the enemy’s right wing, but in the meantime the Thessalian
cavalry ina splendid struggle, had not fallen short of Alexander's success in the
engagement, For the foreigners on the right wing were already beginning to fly when he
‘came on the scene of conilit; so that he wheeled round again and started off in pursuit of
Darius once more, Keeping up the chase as long as there was daylight. Parmenio's brigade
also followed in pursuit of those who were opposed to them. But Alexander erossed the
river Lycus‘ and pitched his eamp there, o give his men and horses a litle rest; while
Parmenio seized the Persian camp with their baggage, elephants, and camels. After giving
his horsemen rest until midnight, Alexander again advanced by a forced march towards
Arbela, with the hope of seizing Darius there, together with his money and the rest of his
royal property. He reached Atbela the next day, having pursued altogether about 600 stades
from the battle-field.“* But as Darius went on fleeing without taking any rest, he did not
find him at Arbela. However the money and all the other property were captured, as was
‘also the chariot of Darius. His spear and bow were likewise taken, as had been the case after


Page 67, Instance 1, Class: Text
seized with alarm when Aretes made a vigorous attack upon them. In this quarter indeed the
Persians took to speedy flight; and the Macedonians followed up the fugitives and
slaughtered them." Simmias and his brigade were not yet able to start with Alexander in
‘pursuit, but causing the phalanx to halt there, he took part in the struggle, because the left
wing of the Macedonians was reported to be hard pressed. In this part of the field, theit line
‘being broken, some of the Indians and of the Persian cavalry burst through the gap towards
the baggage of the Macedonians; and there the action became desperate. For the Persians
fell boldly on the men, who were most of them unarmed, and never expected that any men
would cut through the double phalanx and break through upon them.!* When the Persians
made this atack, the foreign prisoners also assisted them by falling upon the Macedonians
in the midst ofthe action. But the commanders ofthe men who had been posted as a reserve
to the first phalanx, learning what was taking place, quickly moved from the position which
they had been ordered to take, and coming upon the Persians in the rear, Killed many of
them there collected round the baggage. But the rest of them gave way and fled. The
Persians on the right wing, who had not yet become aware of the flight of Darius, rode
round Alexander’ left wing and attacked Parmenio in flank.‘


Page 68, Instance 0, Class: Text
EMMIS RNS
Escape oF Darius 1x10 MEDIA—MARCH OF ALEXANDER TO BABYLON AND SUSA

Ibourpuarey after the battle, Darius marched through the mountains of Armenia towards
Media, accompanied in his fight by the Bactrian cavalry, as they had then been posted with
him in the battle; also by those Persians who were called the king's kinsmen, and by a few 1
‘of the men called apple-bearers. About 2,000 of his Grecian mercenaries also
accompanied him in his flight, under the command of Paron the Phocian, and Glaucus the
‘Actolian. He fled towards Media for this reason, because he thought Alexander would take
the road to Susa and Babylon immediately after the battle, inasmuch as the whole of that
country was inhabited and the road was not difficult forthe transit of baggage: and besides
Babylon and Susa appeared tobe the prizes ofthe war; whereas the oad towards Media was
bby no means easy forthe march of a large army. In this conjecture Darius was mistaken; for
When Alexander started from Arbela, he advanced straight towards Babylon; and when he
was now not far from that ety, he drew up his army in order of battle and marched forward
‘The Babylonians came out to meet him in mass, with their priests and rulers, each of whom
individually brought gifs, and offered to surrender their city, citadel, and money.”
Entering the city, he commanded the Babylonians to rebuild all the temples which Xerxes
hhad destroyed, and especially that of Belus, whom the Babylonians venerate more than any
other god." He then appointed Mazaeus vieeroy of the Babylonians, Apollodorus the
Amphipolitan general of the soldiers who were left behind with Mazaeus, and
‘Asclepiodorus, son of Philo, collector of the revenue. He also sent Mithrines, who had
surrendered to him the citadel of Sardis, down into Armenia to be viceroy there.*"' Here!
also he met wit the Chaldaeans; and whatever they directed in regard to the religious rites,
‘of Babylon he performed, and in particular he offered saerifice to Belus according to their
instructions" He then marched away to Susa‘”; and on the way he was met by the son of
the vieeroy of the Susians,* and a man bearing a letter from Philoxenus, whom he had
despatched to Susa directly after the battle. In the letter Philoxenus had written that the
Susians had surrendered their city to him, and that all the money was safe for Alexander. In
twenty days the king arrived at Susa from Babylon: and entering the ety he took possession
‘of the money, which amounted to 50,000 talents, as well as the rest ofthe royal property.
Many other things were also captured there, which Xerxes brought with him trom Greece, 1
especially the brazen statues of Harmodius and Aristogeiton.* These Alexander sent back
to the Athenians, and they are now standing at Athens in the Ceramicus, where We go up
into the Acropolis,*” right opposite the temple of Rhea, the mother of the gods, not far from
the altar of the Eudanemi. Whoever has been initiated in the mysteries of the two
‘goddesses! at Eleusis, knows the altar of Eudanemus which is upon the plain. At Susa
‘Alexander offered sacrifice after the custom of his fathers, and celebrated a torch race and a
‘gymnastic contest; and then, leaving Abulite, a Persian, as viceroy of Susiana, Mazarus,
‘one of his Companions, as commander of the garison in the citadel of Susa, and Archelais,


Page 68, Instance 1, Class: Text
the battle of Issus."* Of Alexander's men about 100 were killed, and more than 1,000 of his
horses were lost either from wounds or from fatigue in the pursuit, nearly half of them
‘belonging tothe Companion cavalry. Of the foreigners there were said to have been about
300,000 slain, and far more were taken prisoners than were killed The elephants and all
‘the chariots which had not been destroyed in the battle were also captured. Such was the
result ofthis bate, which was fought in the archonship of Aristophanes at Athens, inthe
month Pyanepsion:** and thus Aristander’s prediction was accomplished, that Alexander
‘would both fight a battle and gain a victory in the same month in which the moon was seen
tobe eclipsed.”


Page 69, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘those of the Companions who were pre-ceinent for merit.
CHAPTER XVIL
SUBJUGATION OF THE UXIANS.

He now set out from Susa, and, crossing the river Pastigris“ invaded the country of the
Uxians. Some of these people who inhabit the plains were under the rule ofthe viceroy of
the Persians, and on this occasion surrendered to Alexander; but those who are called the
mountaineers were notin subjection to the Persians, and a this time sent word to Alexander
that they would not permit him to march with his forces into Persis, unless they received
from him as much as they were in the habit of receiving from the king of the Persians for
the passage through their mountains. He sent the messengers back with instructions to
‘come to the defies, the possession of which made them think thatthe passage into Pers
was in their power, promising them that they should there receive from him the preseribed
toll. He then took the royal body-guards the shiel-bearing infantry, and 8,000 men from
the rest of his army, and, under the guidance of the Susians, marched by night along a
different oad from the frequented one. Advancing by a route rough and difficult, on the
same day he fell upon the villages of the Uxians, where he captured much booty and killed
many of the people while still n their beds; but others escaped into the mountains. He then
made a foreed march tothe defies, where the Uxians resolved to meet him in mass in order
to receive the presribed toll. But he had already previously despatched Craterus to seize the
heights, to which he thought the Uxians would retire if they were repelled by foree; and he
himself went, with great eelerity, and got possession ofthe pass before their arrival. He then
drew up his men in batle array, and led them from the higher and more commanding
position against the barbarians. They, being alarmed at Alexander's celerity, and finding
themselves deprived by stratagem“ of the positon in which they had especially confided,
took to flight without ever coming 10 close combat. Some of them were killed by
‘Alexander's men in their flight, and many lost thei lives by falling over the precipices
‘along the road; but most of them fled up into the mountains for refuge, and falling in with
raterus, were destroyed by his men. Having received these gifts of honour from
‘Alexander, they with difficulty, after much entrety, procured from him the privilege of
retaining possession of their own land on condition of paying him an annual tribute
Ptolemy, son of Lagus, says that the mother of Darius," on their behalf, entreated
‘Alexander to grant them the privilege of inhabiting the land. The tribute agreed tpon was a
Inundred horses, five hundred oxen, and 30,000 sheep a year; for the Uxians had no money,
nor was their country ft for tillage; but most of them were shepherds and herdsmen,


Page 69, Instance 1, Class: Text
son of Theodorus, as general, he advanced towards the land of the Persians. He also sent
Menes down to the se3, as governor of Syria, Phoenicia, and Cilicia, giving him 3,000
talents of silver™ to convey to the sea, with orders to despatch as many of them 0
‘Antipater as he might need to carry on the war against the Lacedaemonians.*”’ There also
‘Aniyntas, son of Andromenes, reached him withthe forces which he was leading from |
Macedonia“; of whom Alexander placed the horsemen in the ranks of the Companion
cavalry, and the foot headed tothe various regiments of infantry, arranging each according
to nationalities, He also established two companies in each squadron of cavalry, whereas
before this time companies did not exist in the cavalry; and over them he set as captains
those ofthe Companions who were pre-eminent fr merit


Page 70, Instance 0, Class: Text
eee eee nna sean ne onan eee ee ee ee eee ee
Grecian allies, the mercenary auxiliaries, and the est of the mote heavily armed soldiers, to
march into Persis along the cartiage road leading into that country. He himself took the
Macedonian infantry, the Companion cavalry, the light cavalry used for skirmishing, the
‘Agrianians, andthe archers, and made a forced march through the mountains. But when he
arrived at the Persian Gates, he found that Aviobarzanes, the viceroy of Persis, with 40,000
infantry and 700 cavalry, had built a wall across the pass, and had pitched his eamp there
near the wall to block Alexander's passage. Then indeed he pitched his camp there; but next
day he marshalled his army, and led it up to the wall. When it was evident that it would be
difficult to capture it on account ofthe rugged nature of the ground, and as many of is men
were being wounded, the enemy’ assaiing them with missiles from engines of war placed
upon higher ground, which gave them an advantage over their assailants, he retreated to his
‘camp. He was informed by the prisoners that they could lead him round by another route, so
that he might get to the other end of the pass; but when he ascertained that this road was
rough and nartow, he left Craterus there at the camp with his own brigade and that of
Meleager, as well as a few archers and 500 cavalry, with orders that when he perceived he
hhad got right round and was approaching the camp of the Persians (which he could easly
perceive, because the trumpets would give him the signal), he should then assault the wall
‘Alexander advanced by night, and traveling about 100 stades, he took the shield-bearing
‘guards, the brigade of Perdiccas, the lightest armed of the archers, the Agrianians, the royal  !
Squadron of cavalry Companions, and one regiment of cavalry besides these, containing
four companies; and wheeling round with these troops, he marched towards the passin the
direction the prisoners led him. He ordered Amyntas, Philotas, and Coenus to lead the rest
‘of the army towards the plain, and to make a bridge over the river“ which one must cross
to go into Persis. He himself went by a route difficult and rough, along which he
nevertheless marched for the most part at fall speed. Falling upon the frst guard of the
barbarians before daylight. he destroyed them, and so be did most of the second: but the
majority of the third guard escaped, not indeed by fleeing into the camp of Ariobarzanes,
‘but into the mountains as they were, being seized with a sudden panic. Consequently He fell
upon the enemy’s camp at the approach of dawn without being observed. At the very time
hhe began to assault the trench, the trumpets gave the signal to Craterus, who at once
attacked the advanced fortification. The enemy then, being in a state of confusion from
being attacked on all sides, fled without coming to close coniict; but they were hemmed in
‘on all hands, Alexander pressing upon them in one direction and the men of Craterus
running up in another. Therefore most of them were compelled to wie! round and flee into
the fortifications, which were already in the hands of the Macedonians. For Alexander,
expecting the very thing which really occured, had left Ptolemy there with thee thousand
infantry; so that most of the barbarians were cut t0 pieces by the Macedonians at close
‘quarters. Others perished in the tersible flight which ensued, hurling themselves over the
precipices; but Aviobarzanes himself, with afew horsemen, escaped into the mountains”!
‘Alexander now marched back with all speed to the river, and finding the bridge already
constructed over ithe easly crossed with his army:**” Thence he again continued his march
to Persepolis, so that he arrived before the guards ofthe city could pillage the treasury."
He also captured the money which was at Pasargadae®? in the treasury of the first Cyrus,
and appointed Phrasaortes, son of Rheomithres, viceroy over the Persians. He burnt down,
the Persian palace, though Parmenio advised him to preserve it, for many reasons, and
especially because it was not well to destroy what was now his own property, and because
‘the men of Asia would not by this course of action be induced to come over to him, thinking
that he himself had decided not to retain the rule of Asia, but only to conquer it and depart
But Alexander said that he wished to take vengeance on the Persians, in retaliation for their
deeds in the invasion of Greece, when they razed Athens to the ground and burnt down the
‘temples. He also desired to punish the Persians for all the other injuries they had done the |!


Page 71, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XIX.
Datu PuRsvep nro MEDia AND PART

‘Arter bringing these matters to a successful issue, he advanced towards Media; for he
ascertained that Darius was there. Now Darius had formed the resolution, if Alexander
remained at Susa or Babylon, to stay there among the Medes, in order to see if any change
of policy were made by Alexander. But if the latter marched against him, he resolved to
‘proceed into the interior towards Parthia and Hyreania, as far as Bactri, laying waste all the
land and making it impossible for Alexander to advance any further. He therefore sent the
women and the rest of the property which he still retained, together with the covered
carriages, to what were called the Caspian Gates; but he himself stayed at Echatana,‘ |
with the forces which had been collected from those who were at hand. Hearing this,
‘Alexander advanced towards Media, and invading the land of the Paraetacae,* he subdued
it, and appointed Oxathres, son of Abulites, the former viceroy of Susa, to rule as viceroy
Being informed on the march that Darius had determined to meet him for battle, and to try
the fortune of war again (forthe Seythians and Cadusians had come to him as allies), he
‘ordered that the beasts of burden, with their guards and the rest of the baggage, should
follow; and taking the rest of his army, he led it in order of batle, and on the twelfth day
arrived in Media. There he ascertained that the forees of Darius were not fit for battle, and
‘that his allies, the Cadusians and Seythians, had not arrived: but that he had resolved to flee.
He therefore marched on with still greater speed and when he was only three days’ journey
from Ecbatana, he was met by Bistanes, son of Ochus, who reigned over the Persians before
Darius. This man announced that Darius had fled five days before, taking with him 7,000
talents of money” from the Medes, and an army of 3,000 cavalry and 6,000 infantey

When Alexander reached Ecbatana, be sent the Thessalian cavalry and the other Grecian
allies back to the sea, paying them the full hire which had been stipulated, and making them
‘an additional donation from himself of 2,000 talents. He issued an order that if any man of
his own accord wished still to continue to serve for hire with him, he should enlist; and
those who enlisted in his service were not a few. He then ordered Epocillus, son of
Polyeides, to conduct the rest down to the sea, taking other cavalry as a guard for them,
since the Thessalians sold their horses there. He also sent word to Menes to take upon
himself the duty of seeing that they were conveyed in triremes to Euboea, when they arrived
atthe sea" He instructed Parmenio to deposit the money which was being conveyed from
Persis inthe citadel at Eebatana, and to band it over tothe charge of Harpalus:*” for he had
left this man over the money with a guard of 6,000 Macedonians and a few horsemen and
light-armed infantry 0 take care of it. He told Parmenio himself to take the Grecian
mercenaries, the Thracian, and all the other horsemen except the Companion cavalry, and
march by the land of the Cadusians into Hyrcania. He also sent word. to Clitus, the
‘commander ofthe royal squadron of cavalry, who had been left behind at Susa ill, that when
he arrived at Eebatana from Susa he should take the Macedonians who had been let therein
charge ofthe money, and go inthe direction of Parthia, where also he himself intended soon
toarrve,


Page 72, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXI.
DARIUS Is ASSASSINATED RY BESSUS.
Ar this time Bagistanes, one of the Babylonian nobles, came to him from the camp of
Darius, accompanied by Antibelus, one of the sons of Mazaeus. These men informed him
that Nabarzanes, the commander Of the cavalry which accompanied Darius in his flight,
Bessus, viceroy of Bactria, and Barsaéntes, viceroy of the Arachotians and Drangians,'*
hhad jointly arrested the king. When Alexander heard this, he marched with still greater
speeid than ever, taking with him only the Companions and the skirmishing cavalry, as well
as some of the foot-soldiers selected as the strongest and lightest men, He did not even wait
for Coenus to return from the foraging expedition; but placed Craterus over the men left
behind, with instructions to follow in short marches. His own men took with them nothing
but their arms and provisions for two days. After marching the whole night and tll noon of
the next day, he gave his army a short rest, then went on again all night, and when day
‘began to break reached the camp from which Bagistanes had set out to meet him; but he did
not catch the enemy. However, in regard to Darius, he ascertained that be had been arrested
and was being conveyed in a covered carriage"; that Bessus possessed the command
instead of Darius, and had been nominated leader by the Bactian cavalry and all the other
barbarians who were companions of Darius in his Might, except Artabazus and his sons,
together with the Grecian mercenaries, who still remained faithful to Darius; but they, not
being able to prevent what was being done, had tured aside their march from the public
‘thoroughfare and were marching towards the mountains by themselves, refusing to take part
With Bessus and his adherents in their enterprise. He also Tearnt that those who had arrested
Darius had come to the decision to surrender him to Alexander, and to procure some
advantage for themselves, if they should find that Alexander was pursuing them: but if they
should learn that he had gone back again, they had resolved to collect as lange an army as
they could and to preserve the rule for the commonwealth, He also ascertained that for the
present Bessus held the supreme command, both on account of his relationship to Darius
‘and because the war was being carried on in his viceregal province. Hearing this, Alexander
‘thought it was advisable to pursue with all his might; and though his men and horses were
already quite fatigued by the incessant severity of their labours, he nevertheless proceeded,
and, travelling a long way all through the night and the next day till noon, arrived at a


Page 72, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘TueN taking the Companion cavalry, the light cavalry used for skirmishing, the Greek
mercenary cavalry, under the command of Erigyius, the Macedonian phalanx, except the
men who had been placed in charge of the money, the archers, and the Agrianians, he
marched against Darius. Inthe forced march which he made, many of his soldiers were left
‘behind, worn out with fatigue, and many of the horses died. He nevertheless pressed on, and
‘on the eleventh day arrived at Rhagae.* This place is distant from the Caspian Gates one
days journey to one marching as Alexander did. But Darius had already passed through this,
defile before Alexander came up, though many of those who were his companions inflight
deserted him on the way and retired to their own abodes. Many also surrendered to
‘Alexander. The latter now gave up the hope of capturing Darius by close pursuit, and
remained there five days to give his troops repose. He appointed Oxodates a Persian, who
hhad the ill fortune to be arrested by Darius and shut up at Susa, to the office of viceroy of
Media; for this treatment was an indueement to Alexander to rely on his fidelity. He then
marched towards Parthia: and on the first day encamped near the Caspian Gates, which he
passed through on the second day as far asthe country was inhabited"! Hearing thatthe
country further on was desert, he resolved to procure a stock of provisions from the place
where he was encamped, and accordingly sent Coenus out on a foraging expedition with the


Page 73, Instance 0, Class: Text
marching order. He himself began to march in the afternoon, and led the way with great
rapidity“ Having travelled 400 stades in the night, he eame upon the barbarians just beforeSS
daybreak, going along without any order and unarmed: so that few of them rushed to defend
themselves, but most of them, as soon as they saw Alexander himself, took to flight without
even coming to blows. A few of those who turned to resist being killed, the rest of these also
took to flight. Up to this time Bessus and his adherents were still conveying Darius with
them in a covered carriage: but when Alexander was already close upon their heels
‘Nabarzanes and Barsaéntes wounded him and left him there, and with 600 horsemen took to
flight. Darius died from his wounds soon after, before Alexander had seen him.
(CHAPTER XXIL

ReFLECTIONS oN THE Farr oF Dantes,
AuexanpeR sent the body of Darius into Persis, with orders that it should be buried in the
royal sepulchre, in the same way as the other Persian kings before him had been buried.*
He then proclaimed Amminaspes, a Parthian, viceroy over the Parthians and Hyrcanian.
‘This man was one of those who with Mazaces had surrendered Faypt to Alexander. He also
appointed Tlepolemus, son of Pythophanes, one of the Companions, to guard his interests in
Parthia and Hyreania. Such was the end of Darius, in the archonship of Aristophon at
‘Athens, in the month Heeatombaion.*” This king was a man pre-eminently effeminate and
lacking in self-reliance in military enterprises: but as to civil matters he never exhibited any
disposition to indulge in arbitrary conduct nor indeed was it in his power to exhibit it. For it
hhappened that he was involved in a war with the Macedonians and Greeks atthe very time
he succeeded to the regal power; and consequently it was no longer possible for him to
act the tyrant towards his subjects, even if he had been so inclined, standing as he did in
‘greater danger than they. As long ashe lived, one misfortune after another was accumulated
upon him; nor did he experience any cessation of calamity feom the time when he first
succeeded to the rule. At the beginning of his reign the cavalry defeat was sustained by his
Vieeroys at the Granicus, and forthwith Tonia Acoli, both the Phrygias, Lydia, and all
Caria except Halicarassus were occupied by his foe; soon after, Halicarnassus also was
captured, as well as all the littoral as far as Cilicia. Then eame his own discomfiture at Issus,
Where he saw his mother, wife, and children taken prisoners. Upon this Phoenicia and the
whole of Egypt were lost and then at Arbela he himself fled disgracefully among the first,
and lost avery vast army composed of all the nations of his empite. After this, wandering as
an exile from his own dominions, he died after being betrayed by his personal attendants 0
the worst treatment possible, being atthe same time king and a prisoner ignominiously led
in chains; and at last he perished through a conspiracy formed of those most intimately
acquainted with him. Such were the misfortunes that befell Darius in his lifetime; but after


Page 73, Instance 1, Class: Text
certain village, where those who were leading Darius had encamped the day before. Hearing
there thatthe barbarians had decided to continue their march by night, he inquired of the
natives if they knew any shorter road tothe fugitives. They said they did know one, but that
it ran through a country which was desert through lack of water. He nevertheless ordered
them to show him this way, and perceiving thatthe infantry could not keep up with him if
hhe marched at full speed, he caused 500 of the cavalry to dismount from their horses: and
selecting the officers of the infantry and the best of the other foot-soldies, he ordered them
to mount the horses armed just as they were. He also directed Nicanor, the commander of
the shield-bearing guards, and Attalus, commander ofthe Agranians, to lead their men who
were left behind, by the same route which Bessus had taken, having equipped them as
Tightly as possible: and he ordered that the rest of the infantry should follow in regular
marching order. He himself began to mach inthe afternoon, and led the way with great
rapidity." Having tavelled 400 stades in the night, he came upon the barbarians just befor
daybreak, going along without any order and unarmed; so that few of them rushed to defend
themselves, but most of them, as soon a they saw Alexander himself, ook wo flight without
‘even coming to blows. A few of those who turmed to resist being killed, the rest ofthese also
took to fight. Up to this time Bessus and his adherens were still conveying Darius with
them in a covered carriage: but when Alexander Was already close upon their heels
[Nabarzanes and Barsagntes wounded him and left him there, and with 600 horsemen took to
flight. Darius died from his wounds oon afer, before Alexander had seen him.


Page 74, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXIIL
Expeprtion into HyRcania

AuexanpeR now took the soldiers who had been left behind in his pursuit and advanced into
Hyreania”' which is the country lying on the left ofthe road leading to Bactra."” On one
side itis bounded by lofty mountains densely covered with wood, and on the other it is a
plain stretching as far asthe Great Sea” in this part of the world, He led his army by this,
route, because he ascertained that the Grecian mercenaries serving under Darius had
succeeded in escaping by it into the mountains of Tapuria; atthe same time he resolved to
subdue the Tapurians themselves. Having divided his army into three parts, he himself led
the way by the shortest and most difficult route, atthe head of the most numerous and atthe
same time the lightest division of his forees. He despatched Craters atthe head of his own
brigade and that of Amyntas, some of the archers, and a few of the cavalry against the
‘Tapurians; and he ordered Erigyius to take the Grecian mercenaries and the rest of the
cavalry, and lead the way by the public thoroughfare, though it was longer, conducting the
wagzons, the baggage, and the crowd of camp-followers. After erossing the first mountains,
and encamping there, he took the shield-bearing guards together with the lightest men inthe
Macedonian phalanx and some of the archers, and went along a road difficult and hard to
‘ravel upon, leaving guards for the roads wherever he thought there was any peril, so that
‘the barbarians who held the mountains might not at those points fall upon the men who were
following. Having passed through the defies with his archers, he encamped in the plain near
4 small river"; and while he was here, Nabarzanes, the commander of Darius’s cavalry,
Phataphernes, the viceroy of Hytcania and Parthia, and the other most distinguished of the
Persians in attendance on Darius, arrived and surrendered themselves. After waiting four
days in the camp, he took up those who had been left behind on the march, all of them
advancing in safety except the Agrianians, who, while guarding the rear, were attacked by
‘the barbarian mountaineers. But these soon drew off when they got the worst of it in the
skirmish. Starting from this place, he advanced into Hyrcania as far as Zadracarta, the
capital of the Hyreanians. In this place“ he was rejoined by Craterus, who had not
succeeded in falling in with the Grecian mercenaries of Darius; but he had thoroughly
traversed the whole country, gaining over part of it by force and the other part by the
Voluntary capitulation of the inhabitants. Erigyius also arrived here with the baggage and
waggons; and soon after Artabazus"® came to Alexander with three of his sons, Cophen,
Ariobarzanes, and Arsames, accompanied by Autophradates, viceroy of Tapuria, and envoys,
from the Grecian mercenaries in the service of Darius. To Autophradates he restored his
Viceregal office; but Artabazus and his sons he kept near himself in a position of honour,
‘both on account of their fidelity to Darius and because they were among the frst nobles of
Persia. To the envoys from the Greeks, besging him to make a truce with them on behalf of
the whole mercenary force, he replied that he would not make any agreement with them;
because they were acting with great guilt in serving as soldiers on the side of the barbarians
against Greece, in contravention of the resolution of the Greeks. He commanded them to
come in a body and surrender, leaving it to him to treat them as he pleased, or to preserve
themselves as best they could. The envoys said that they yielded both themselves and their
comrades to Alexander, and urged him to send some one with them to act as their leader, so
that they’ might be conducted to him with safety. They said they were 1,500 in number.
‘Accordingly he sent Andronicus, son of Agerthus, and Artabazus to them,


Page 75, Instance 0, Class: Text
[EXPEDITION AGAINST THE MARDIANS,
He then marched forward against the Mardians"”” taking with him the shield-bearing
‘guards, the archers, the Agrianians, the brigades of Coenus and Amyntas, half of the 190
Companion cavalry, and the horse-lancers; for he had now a troop of horse-lancers
‘Traversing the greater part of the land of the Mardians, he killed many of them in their
flight, some indeed having turned to defend themselves; and many were taken prisoners. No
‘one for along time had invaded their land in a hostile manner, not only on account ofits
ruggedness, but also because the people were poor, and besides being poor were warlike
‘Therefore they never feared that Alexander would attack them, especially as he had already
advanced further than their country. For this reason they were caught more easily off their
‘guard, Many of them, however, escaped into the mountains, which in their land are very
lofty and eragey, thinking that Alexander would not penetrate to these at any rate. But when
hhe was approaching them even here, they sent envoys to surrender both the people and their
land to him. He pardoned them, and appointed Autophradates, whom he had also recently
placed over the Tapurians, viceroy over them. Returning to the camp, from which he had
started to invade the country of the Mardians, he found that the Grecian mercenaries of
Darius had arsived, accompanied by the envoys from the Lacedaemonians who were on an
embassy 10 king Darius. The names ofthese men were, Callicratidas, Pausippus, Monimus,
‘Onomas, and Dropides, a man from Athens. These were arrested and kept under guard; but
hie released the envoys from the Sinopeans,"” because these people had no share in the
commonvealth of the Greeks; and as they were in subjection to the Persians, they did not
seem to be doing anything unreasonable in going on an embassy to their own king. He also
released the rest ofthe Greeks who were serving for pay with the Persians before the peace 19
and alliance which had been made by the Greeks with the Macedonians. He likewise
released Heraclides, the ambassador from the Chaleedonians*” to Darius. The rest he
‘ordered to serve in his army for the same pay as they had received from the Persian king,
putting them under the command of Andronicus, who had led them, and had evidently been
‘aking prudent measures to save the lives of the men.
CHAPTER XXV.
“Marci To Bacra—Brssts AIDED ny SATIBARZANES,

Hone settled these affairs, he marched to Zadracarta, the largest city of Hyreania, where
also was the seat of the Hyrcanian government. Tarrying here fifteen days, he offered
sacrifice to the gods according to his custom, and celebrated a gymnastic contest, after
Which he began his march towards Parthia; thence to the confines of Areia* and to Susia, a
city in that province, where Satbarzanes, the vieeroy of the Areians, came to meet him. To
this man he restored his viceregal dignity, and with him sent Anaxippus, one of the
‘Companions, to whom he gave forty horse-lancers so that he might be able to station them
as guards ofthe localities, inorder thatthe Areians might not be injured by the army in its
march through their land. At this time came to him some Persians, who informed him that
Bessus had assumed the erect tara and was wearing the Persian dress calling himself 2
Artaxerses instead of Bessus, and asserting that he was king of Asia. They said he had in
attendance upon him the Persians who had eseaped into Bactra and many of the Bactrians
themselves; and that he was expecting the Seythians also to come to him as allies
‘Alexander, having now all his forees together, went towards Bactra, where Philip son of
Menelails came to him out of Media with the Greek mercenary cavalry which were under
his own command, those of the Thessalians who had volunteered to remain, and the men of


Page 75, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXV.
“Marci To Bacra—Brssts AIDED ny SATIBARZANES,
Hone settled these affairs, he marched to Zadracarta, the largest city of Hyreania, where
also was the seat of the Hyrcanian government. Tarrying here fifteen days, he offered
sacrifice to the gods according to his custom, and celebrated a gymnastic contest, after
Which he began his march towards Parthia; thence to the confines of Areia* and to Susia, a
city in that province, where Satbarzanes, the vieeroy of the Areians, came to meet him. To
this man he restored his viceregal dignity, and with him sent Anaxippus, one of the
‘Companions, to whom he gave forty horse-lancers so that he might be able to station them
as guards ofthe localities, inorder thatthe Areians might not be injured by the army in its
march through their land. At this time came to him some Persians, who informed him that
Bessus had assumed the erect tiara and was wearing the Persian dress” calling himself
Artaxerses instead of Bessus, and asserting that he was king of Asia. They said he had in
attendance upon him the Persians who had eseaped into Bactra and many of the Bactrians
themselves; and that he was expecting the Seythians also to come to him as allies
‘Alexander, having now all his forees together, went towards Bactra, where Philip son of
Menelails came to him out of Media with the Greek mercenary cavalry which were under
his own command, those ofthe Thessalians who had volunteered to remain, and the men of


Page 76, Instance 0, Class: Text
MELAEEEEIN AANT.
Pim.otas AND PaRMENto PUT To Dear.

Hirer also Alexander discovered the conspiracy of Phildtas, son of Parmenio. Ptolemy and
Aristobilus say that it had already been reported to him before in Egypt; but that it did
not appear to him credible, both on account of the long-existing friendship between them, 1
‘the honour which he publicly conferred upon his father Parmenio, and the confidence he
reposed in Philotas himself. Ptolemy, son of Lagus, says that Philotas was brought before
the Macedonians, that Alexander vehemently accused him, and that he defended himself
from the charges. He says also that the divulgers** of the plot came forward and convicted
hhim and his aecomplices both by other clear proofs and especially because Philotas himself
confessed that he had heard of a certain conspiracy which was being formed against
‘Alexander. He was convicted of having said nothing to the king about this pot, though he
Visited the royal tent twice a day” He and all the others who had taken part with him in the
conspiracy were killed by the Macedonians with their javelins:** and Polydamas, one ofthe
‘Companions, was despatched to Parmenio, carrying letters from Alexander to the generals
in Media, Cleander,Sitalees, and Menidas, who had been placed over the army commanded
by Parmenio. By these men Parmenio was put to death, perhaps because Alexander deemed
it incredible that Philotas should conspire against him and Parmenio not participate in his
son’s plan; or peshaps, he thought that even if he had no share in it, he would now be a
dangerous man if he survived, after the king had violently made away with his son.
Moreover he was held in very great respect both by Alexander himself and by all the army,
having great influence not only among the Macedonian troops but also among the Grecian 19
auxiliaries, whom he often used to command according to Alexander's order, both in his
‘own turn and out of his turn, with his sovereign’s approbation and satisfaction”


Page 76, Instance 1, Class: Text
had already died of disease. While Alexander was on his way to Bactra, he was informed
that Satibarzanes, vieeroy of Areia, had killed Anaxippus and the horse-laneers who were
with him, had armed the Areians and collected them in the eity of Artacoana, which was the
capital of that nation. It was also said that he had resolved, as soon as he ascertained that
‘Alexander had advanced, to leave that place and go with his forces to Bessus, with the
intention of joining that prince in an attack upon the Macedonians, wherever a chance might
‘occur. Whe he received this news, he stopped the march towards Bacta, and taking with
him the Companion eavalry, the horse-lancers, the archers, the Agrianians and the regiments
‘of Amyntas and Coenus, and leaving the rest of his forces there under the command of
‘Craters, he made forced march against Satibarzanes and the Areians; and having travelled
{600 stades in two days came near Artacoana. Satibarzanes, however, no sooner perceived
that Alexander was near than being struck with teror atthe quickness of his arival, he took
to flight with a few Areian horsemen. For he was deserted by the majority of his soldiers in
his flight, when they also learned that Alexander was at hand. The latter made rapid marches,
in pursuit of the enemy, Killed some of the men whom he discovered to be guilty of the
revolt and who at that time had left thei villages, fleeing, some one way, some another; and
‘others of them he sold into slavery. He then proclaimed Arsames, a Persian, viceroy over the
“Areians. Being now joined by the men who had been left behind with Craterus, he marched
into the land of the Zarangaeans.** and reached the place where thei seat of government
was. But Barsaéntes, who at that time had possession of the land, being one of those who
had fallen upon Darius in his flight, leaming that Alexander was approaching, fled to the
Indians who live this side of the river Indus. But they arrested him and sent him back to
‘Alexander, by whom he was put to death on aceount of his guilty conduct towards Darius.
CHAPTER XXVI


Page 76, Instance 2, Class: Text
Andromachus. Nicanor, the son of Parmenio, the commander of the shield-bearing guards,
hhad already died of disease. While Alexander was on his way to Bactra, he was informed
that Satibarzanes, vieeroy of Areia, had killed Anaxippus and the horse-laneers who were
with him, had armed the Areians and collected them in the eity of Artacoana, which was the
capital of that nation. It was also said that he had resolved, as soon as he ascertained that
‘Alexander had advanced, to leave that place and go with his forces to Bessus, with the
intention of joining that prince in an attack upon the Macedonians, wherever a chance might
‘occur. Whe he received this news, he stopped the march towards Bacta, and taking with
him the Companion eavalry, the horse-lancers, the archers, the Agrianians and the regiments
‘of Amyntas and Coenus, and leaving the rest of his forces there under the command of 193
‘Craters, he made forced march against Satibarzanes and the Areians; and having travelled
{600 stades in two days came near Artacoana. Satibarzanes, however, no sooner perceived
that Alexander was near than being struck with teror atthe quickness of his arival, he took
to flight with a few Areian horsemen. For he was deserted by the majority of his soldiers in
his flight, when they also learned that Alexander was at hand. The latter made rapid marches,
in pursuit of the enemy, Killed some of the men whom he discovered to be guilty of the
revolt and who at that time had left thei villages, fleeing, some one way, some another; and
‘others of them he sold into slavery. He then proclaimed Arsames, a Persian, viceroy over the
“Areians. Being now joined by the men who had been left behind with Craterus, he marched
into the land of the Zarangaeans.** and reached the place where thei seat of government
was. But Barsaéntes, who at that time had possession of the land, being one of those who
had fallen upon Darius in his flight, leaming that Alexander was approaching, fled to the
Indians who live this side of the river Indus. But they arrested him and sent him back to
‘Alexander, by whom he was put to death on aceount of his guilty conduct towards Darius.
CHAPTER XXVL.

Pim.otas AND PaRMENto PUT To Dear.
Hirer also Alexander discovered the conspiracy of Phildtas, son of Parmenio. Ptolemy and
Aristobilus say that it had already been reported to him before in Egypt; but that it did
not appear to him credible, both on account of the long-existing friendship between them, 194
‘the honour which he publicly conferred upon his father Parmenio, and the confidence he
reposed in Philotas himself. Ptolemy, son of Lagus, says that Philotas was brought before
the Macedonians, that Alexander vehemently accused him, and that he defended himself
from the charges. He says also that the divulgers** of the plot came forward and convicted
hhim and his aecomplices both by other clear proofs and especially because Philotas himself
confessed that he had heard of a certain conspiracy which was being formed against
‘Alexander. He was convicted of having said nothing to the king about this pot, though he
Visited the royal tent twice a day” He and all the others who had taken part with him in the
conspiracy were killed by the Macedonians with their javelins:** and Polydamas, one ofthe
‘Companions, was despatched to Parmenio, carrying letters from Alexander to the generals
in Media, Cleander,Sitalees, and Menidas, who had been placed over the army commanded
by Parmenio. By these men Parmenio was put to death, perhaps because Alexander deemed
it incredible that Philotas should conspire against him and Parmenio not participate in his
son’s plan; or peshaps, he thought that even if he had no share in it, he would now be a
dangerous man if he survived, after the king had violently made away with his son.
Moreover he was held in very great respect both by Alexander himself and by all the army,
having great influence not only among the Macedonian troops but also among the Grecian 195
auxiliaries, whom he often used to command according to Alexander's order, both in his
‘own turn and out of his tur, with his sovereign’s approbation and satisfaction.*”


Page 77, Instance 0, Class: Text
“TREATMENT OF AMYNTAS—THE ARIASPIANS

‘Tuy also say that about the same time Amyntas, son of Andromenes, was brought to tral,
together with his brothers Polemo, Attalus, and Sinmias, on the charge of being accessory
to the conspiracy against Alexander, on account of their trust in Philotas and thei intimate
friendship with him. The belief in their participation in the plot was strengthened among the
mass of men by the fact that when Philotas was arrested, Polemo, one of the brothers of
Amyntas, fled to the enemy. But Amyntas with his other two brothers stayed to await the
‘wil, and defended himself so vigorously among the Macedonians that he was declared
innocent of the charge. AS soon as he was acquitted in the assembly, he demanded that
permission should be given him to go to his brother and bring him back to Alexander. To
this the Macedonians acceded; so he went away and on the same day brought Polemo back
‘On this account he now seemed free fom guilt much more than before. But soon after, as he
was besieging a certain village, he was shot with an artow and died ofthe wound: so that he
derived no other advantage from his acquittal except that of dying with an unsullied
reputation”

‘Alexander appointed two commanders over the Companion cavalry, Hephaestion, son of
Amyntor, and Clitus, son of Dropidas, dividing the brigade of the Companions into two
parts, because he did not wish any one of his friends to have the sole command of so many
horsemen, especially as they were the best ofall his cavalry, both in public estimation and in
martial discipline! He now arrived in the land of the people formerly called Ariaspians,
but afterwards named Euergetae, because they assisted Cyrus, son of Cambyses, in his
invasion of Scythia.” Alexander treated these people, whose ancestors had been
serviceable to Cyrus, with honour, and when he ascertained that the men not only enjoyed a
form of goverument unlike that ofthe other barbarians in that part of the world, but laid
claim to justice equally withthe best of the Greeks, he set them free, and gave them besides,
as much ofthe adjacent country as they asked for themselves; but they did not ask for much,
Here he offered sacrifice to Apollo, and arrested Demetrius, one of his confidential body-
‘guards, on suspicion of having been implicated with Phlotas in the conspiracy. Ptolemy, son
‘of Lagus, was appointed tothe post vacated by Demetrius.


Page 77, Instance 1, Class: Text
EMA IIR AANIS
ALEXANDER CROSSES THE HiNDU-Koost.

‘Arter the tansaction ofthis business, he advanced against Bactra and Bessus, reducing the
Drangians and Gadrosians"” to subjection on his march, He also reduced the Arachotians to!
subjection and appointed Menon viceroy over them. He thea reached the Indians, who
inhabit the land bordering on that ofthe Arachotians. All these nations he reached marching
through deep snow and his soldiers experiencing scarcity of provisions and severe hardship.
[Learning thatthe Areians had again revolted, in consequence of Satibarzanes invading their
land with 2,000 cavalry, which he had received from Bessus, he despatched against them
Avtabazus the Persian With Erigyius and Caranus two of the Companions, also ordering
Phrataphemes, viceroy of the Parthians, 10 assist them in attacking the Ateians. An
‘obstinately contested batle then took place between the troops of Erigyius and Caranus and
those of Satibarzanes; nor did the barbarians give way unt Satibarzanes, encountering
Erigyus, was struck in the face with a spear and Killed. Then the barbarians pave way and
fled with headlong speed.


Page 78, Instance 0, Class: Text
founded a city and named it Alexandra." Having offered sacrifice here to the gods to
‘whom it was his custom to sacifie, he erossed Mount Caueasus, after appointing Pro8xes,
4 Persian, viceroy over the land, and leaving Neiloxenus son of Satyrus, one of the
‘Companions, with an army as superintendent. According to the account of Aristobulus,
Mount Caucasus is as lofty as any in Asia, and most of itis bare, at any rate in that part
‘where Alexander crossed it. This range of mountains stretches out so far that they say even
‘that Mount Taurus, which forms the boundary of Cilicia and Pamphyli, springs feom it, as
do other great ranges which have been distinguished from the Caucasus by various names!
according tothe position of each, Aristobulus says that in this part ofthe Caucasus nothing
‘grew except terebinth trees and silphium:* notwithstanding which, it was inhabited by
many people, and many sheep and oxen graze there; because sheep are very fond of
silphium. For if a sheep smells it even from a distance, it runs to it and feeds upon the
flower. They also dig up the root, which is devoured by the sheep. For this reason in
Cyrene,*” some drive their flocks as far as possible away from the places where their
silphium is growing; others even enclose the place with a fence, so that even if the sheep
should approach it they would not be able to get within the enclosure. For the silphium is
Very valuable tothe Cyrenacans.

Bessus, accompanied by the Persians who had taken part with him in the seizure of
Darius, and by 7,000 of the Bactrians themselves and the Daans who dwelt on this side the
‘Tanais,** was laying waste the country atthe foot of Mount Caucasus, in order to prevent
‘Alexander from marching any futher, both by the desolation of the land between the enemy
land himself and by the lack of provisions. But none the less did Alexander keep up the
march, though with difficulty, both on account of the deep snow and from the want of
necessaries; but yet he persevered in his journey. When Bessus was informed that Alexander
‘was now not fr off, he crossed the river Onus,"” and having burnt the boats upon which he!
hhad crossed, he withdrew to Nautaca™" in the land of Sogdiana. He was followed by
Spitamenes and Oxyartes, with the cavalry ftom Sogdiana, as well as by the Daans from the
“Tanais. But the Bactrian cavalry, perceiving that Bessus had resolved to take to flight, all
dispersed in various directions to their own abodes.

CHAPTER XXIX,
(ConaUEST OF BACTRIA, AND PURSUIT OF BISSUs ACROSS THE OxUS,


Page 78, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘Conounst oF BACTRIA, AND PURSUIT OF BrssUs ACKOSS THE OXUs.
ALexanpee now arrived at Drapsaca, and having there given his army a rest, he marched to
‘Aomus and Bactra, which are the largest cities in the land of the Bactrians. These he took at
the first assault; and left a garrison in the citadel of Aornus, over which he placed Archelals
son of Androcles, one of the Companions. He appointed Artabazus the Persian, viceroy over
the rest of the Buctrians, who were easily reduced to submission. Then he marched towards
the river Oxus, which flows from mount Caucasus, and is the largest of al the rivers in Asia
Which Alexander and his army reached, except the Indian rivers; but the Indian rivers are the
largest in the world. The Oxus discharges its water into the great sea which is near Hyreania,
When he attempted to cross the river it appeared altogether impassable; for its breadth was
about six stades, and its depth was much greater than the proportion ofits breadth, The bed
Of the river was sandy, and the stream so rapid, that stakes fixed deep into the bottom were
easily rooted up from the earth by the mere force of the current, inasmuch as they could not
bbe securely fixed in the sand. Besides this, there was a scarcity of timber in the locality, and
the thought it would take a long time and cause great delay, if they brought fom a distance
the materials needful for making a bridge over the river. Therefore he collected the skins
Which the soldiers used for tent-coverings, and ordered them to be filled with chaff as dry as
possible, and tied and stitched tightly together, so that the water might not penetrate into


Page 79, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXX,
(CAPTURE oF BESSUS.—EXPLOITS IN SOGDIANA.

Here Ptolemy learned that Spitamenes and Dataphernes were not fimly resolved about the
betrayal of Bessus. He therefore left the infantry behind with orders to follow him in regular
‘order, and advanced with the cavalry till he arrived at a certain village, where Bessus was
with a few soldiers; for Spitamenes and his party had already retired from thence, being
ashamed to betray Bessus themselves. Ptolemy posted his cavalry right round the village,
‘which was enclosed by a wall supplied with gates. He then issued a proclamation to the
barbarians in the village, that they Would be allowed to depart uninjured if they surrendered
Bessus to him. They accordingly admitted Ptolemy and his men into the village. He then
seized Bessus and departed; but sent a messenger on before to ask Alexander how he was to
conduct Bessus into his presence, Alexander ordered him to bind the prisoner naked in a
‘wooden collar, and thus to lead him and place him on the right-hand side of the road along
which he was about to march with the army. Thus did Ptolemy. When Alexander saw
Bessus, he caused his chariot to stop, and asked him, for what reason he had in the frst
place arrested Darius, his own king, who was also his kinsman and benefactor, and then led
hhim as a prisoner in chains, and at last killed him? Bessus said that he was not the only
‘person who had decided to do this, but that it was the joint act of those who were atthe time
in attendance upon Darius, with the view of procuring safety for themselves fom
‘Alexander. For this Alexander ordered that he should be scourged, and that the herald
should repeat the very same reproaches which he had himself made to Bessus in his inquiry
‘Afier being thus disgracefully tortured, he was sent away to Bactria to be put to death. Such
is the account given by Ptolemy in relation to Bessus; but Aristobulus says that Spitamenes
and Dataphernes brought Bessus to Ptolemy, and having bound him naked in a wooden
collar betrayed him to Alexander."

‘Alexander supplied his cavalry with horses from that district, for many of his own
horses had perished in the passage of the Caucasus and in the march to and from the Oxus.
He then led his army to Maracanda,*” which is the capital of the land of the Sogdianians
‘Thence he advanced to the river Tanais. This river, which Aristobulus says the neighbouring
barbarians call by a different name, Jaxartes, has its source, like the Oxus, in mount


Page 79, Instance 1, Class: Text
them." When these were filled and stitched together, they were sufficient to convey the
army across in five days. But before he crossed the river, he selected the oldest of the
Macedonians, who were now unfit for military service, and such of the Thessalians as had
Volunteered 0 remain in the army, and sent them back home. He then dispatched Stasanor,
‘one of the Companions, into the land of the Areians, with instructions to arrest Arsames, the
Vieeroy of that people, because he thought him disaffected, and to assume the office of
Viceroy of Ateia himself

‘Afier passing over the river Oxus, he made a forced march to the place where he heard
that Bessus was with his Forces; but at this time messengers reached him fom Spitamenes
land Dataphernes, 10 announce that they would arrest Bessus and hand him over to
‘Alexander if he would send to them a small army and a commander fori; since even at that
Very time they were holding him under guard, though they had not bound him with fetters,
When Alexander heard this, he gave his army rest, and marched more slowly than before.
But he despatched Ptolemy, son of Lagus, at the head of three troops of the Companion
cavalry and all the horse-laneers, and of the infantry, the brigade of Philotas, one regiment
‘of 1,000 shield-bearing guards, all the Agrianians, and half the archers, with orders to make
2 forced march to Spitamenes and Dataphernes. Ptolemy went according to his instructions,
and completing ten days’ march in four days, arrived at the camp where on the preceding
day the barbarians under Spitamenes had bivouacked


Page 80, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Caucasus, and also discharges itself into the Hyrcanian Sea." It must be a different Tanais
fiom that of which Herodotus the historian speaks, saying that it is the eighth of the
Seythian rivers, that it lows out of a great lake in which i originates, and discharges itself
into a still larger lake, called the Macots." There are some who make this Tanais the
boundary of Europe and Asia, saying that the Palus Maeotis, issuing from the furthest recess.
‘of the Euxine" Sea, and this river Tanai, which discharges itself into the Maeotis, separate
‘Asia and Europe." justin the same way as the sea near Gadeita and the Nomad Libyans
‘opposite Gadeira separates Libya and Europe. Libya also is said by these men to be
divided from the rest of Asia by the eiver Nile. In this place (viz. atthe river Tanais), some
‘of the Macedonians, being engaged in foraging, were eut to pieces by the barbarians. The
perpetrators of this deed escaped to a mountain, which was very rugged and precipitous on
all sides. In number they were about 30,000. Alexander took the lightest men in his arty
land marched against these. Then the Macedonians made many ineffectual assaults upon the
mountain. At fist they were beaten back by the missles of the barbarians, and many of
them were wounded, including Alexander himself, who was shot right theough the leg with
‘an arrow, and the fibula of his leg was broken. Notwithstanding this, he captured the place,
land some of the barbarians were eut to pieces there by the Macedonians, while many also.
cast themselves davwn from the rocks and perished: so that out of 30,000 not more than
8.000 were preserved


Page 80, Instance 1, Class: Text
REBELLION OF THE SOGDIANIANS.
‘A few days after this, envoys reached Alexander from the people called Abian Seythians,
whom Homer commended in his poem, calling them the justest of men.*!? This nation
dwells in Asia and is independent, chiefly by reason of its poverty and love of justice.
Envoys also came from the Seythians of Europe, who ate the largest nation dwelling in that
continent. Alexander sent some of the Companions with them, under the pretext indeed
that they were to conclude a friendly alliance by the embassy: but the real object of the
mission was rather to spy into the natural features of the Scythian land, the number of the
inhabitants and their customs, as well as the armaments which they possessed for making
military expeditions." He formed a plan of founding a city near the river Tanai, which
was to be named after himself: forthe site seemed to him suitable and likely to cause the
city to grow to large dimensions. He also thought it would be builtin a place which would
serve asa favourable basis of operations for an invasion of Seythia, if such an event should
ever occur, and not only so, but it would also be a bulwark to secure the land against the
incursions of the barbarians dwelling on the further side ofthe river. Moreover he thought
thatthe city would become great, both by reason of the muhitude of those who would join
in colonizing it, and on account of the celebrity of the name conferred upon it! Meantime
the barbarians dwelling near the river seized upon the Macedonian soldiers who were
tgarrisoning their cities and killed them: after which they began to strengthen the cities for
their greater security. Most of the Sogdianians joined them inthis revolt, being urged on to
itby the men who had arrested Bessus. These men were so energetic that they even induced
some of the Bactrans to join in the rebellion, either because they were afraid of Alexander,
‘or because their seducers assigned es a reason for their revolt, that he had sent instructions


Page 80, Instance 2, Class: Text
aaa em ee eae enn ae aa see none oe NN EINES OOS
‘of the Euxine Sea, and this river Tanai, which discharges itself into the Maeots, separate
‘Asia and Europe," justin the same way as the sea near Gadeira and the Nomad Libyans
‘opposite Gadeira separates Libya and Europe.” Libya also is said by these men to be
divided from the rest of Asia by the river Nile. In this place (viz. atthe river Tanais), some
of the Macedonians, being engaged in foraging, were cut to pieces by the barbarians. The
perpetrators of this deed escaped to a mountain, which was very rugged and precipitous on
all sides. In number they were about 30,000, Alexander took the lightest men in his army
‘and marched against these. Then the Macedonians made many ineffectual assaults upon the
mountain. At first they were beaten back by the missiles of the barbarians, and many of
them were wounded, including Alexander himself, who was shot right through the leg with
an arrow, and the fibula of his leg was broken. Notwithstanding ths, he captured the place,
and some of the barbarians were cut to pieces there by the Macedonians, while many also 20
cast themselves down from the rocks and perished; so that out of 30,000 not more than
8,000 were preserved.°”
BOOK IV. ”
CHAPTER |
Rime tio oF TH: SoGDIANIANS.
‘A few days after this, envoys reached Alexander from the people called Abian Seythians,
‘whom Homer commended in his poem, calling them the justest of men!” This nation
dwells in Asia and is independent, chiefly by reason of its poverty and love of justice.
Envoys also came from the Seythians of Europe, who ate the largest nation dwelling in that
continent. Alexander sent some of the Companions with them, under the pretext indeed
that they were to conclude a friendly alliance by the embassy: but the real object of the
mission was rather to spy into the natural features of the Scythian land, the number of the
inhabitants and their customs, as well as the armaments which they possessed for making
military expeditions." He formed a plan of founding a city near the river Tanai, which
‘was to be named after himself; for the site seemed to him suitable and likely to cause the
city to grow to large dimensions. He also thought it would be builtin a place which would
serve asa favourable basis of operations for an invasion of Seythia, if such an event should
ever occur, and not only so, but it would also be a bulwark to secure the land against the 20
incursions of the barbarians dwelling on the further side ofthe river. Moreover he thought
thatthe city would become great, both by reason of the muhitude of those who would join
in colonizing it, and on account of the celebrity of the name conferred upon it! Meantime
the barbarians dwelling near the river seized upon the Macedonian soldiers who were
tgarrisoning their cities and killed them: after which they began to strengthen the cities for
their greater security. Most of the Sogdianians joined them inthis revolt, being urged on to
itby the men who had arrested Bessus. These men were so energetic that they even induced
some of the Bactrans to join in the rebellion, either because they were afraid of Alexander,
‘or because their seducers assigned as a reason for their revolt, that he had sent instructions


Page 81, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER IL
CCaPrURE oF Five Crnuss is Two Dass.
Wutex Alexander was informed of this, he gave instructions t0 the infantry, company by
‘company, to prepare the ladders which Were assigned to each company. He then started from
the camp and advanced to the nearest city, the name of which was Gaza; for the barbarians
‘of the land were said to have fled for refuge into seven cities. He sent Craterus to the one
called Cyropolis, the largest of them all, into which most of the barbarians had gathered.'* 2
‘The orders of Craterus were to encamp near the city, to dig a trench round it, to surround it
With a stockade, and to fix together the military engines which were required for use, so that
the men inthis ety, having had thei atention drawa to his forces, might be unable to render
Aid to the other cities. As soon as Alexander arrived at Gaza, without any delay he gave the
signal to his men to place the ladders against the wall all round and to take it by assault at
‘once, as it was made merely of earth and was not at all high. Simultaneously with the
assault of the infantry, his singers, archers, and javelin-throwers assailed the defenders on
‘the wall, and missiles were hurled ftom the military engines, so that the wall was quickly
cleared of its defenders by the multitude of the missiles. Then the fixing of the ladders
‘against the wall and the mounting of the Macedonians were matters soon effected. They
killed all the men, according to Alexander’s injunctions; but the women, the children, and
the rest of the booty they carried off as plunder. Thence he immediately marched tothe city
situated next to that one; and this he took in the same way and on the same day, treating the
captives in the same manner. Then he marched against the thd city, and took it on the next
day at the frst assault. While he was thus occupied by these matters with the infantry, he
sent out his cavalry tothe two neighbouring cities, with orders to guard the men within them
closely, so that when they heard of the capture of the neighbouring cities, and at the same
time of his own near approach, they should not betake themselves to flight and render it
impossible for him to pursue them. It turned out just as he had conjectured: and his despatch 2
‘of the cavalry was made just at the nick of time: For when the barbarians who occupied the
‘wo cities still uncaptured, saw the smoke rising from the city in front of them which was
‘then on fire, (and some men, escaping even from the midst ofthe calamity itself, became the
reporters of the capture which they had themselves witnessed.) they began to flee in crowds
out of the cites as fast as each man could; but falling in with the dense body of cavalry
drawn up in array of batle, most of them were cut to pieces.
CHAPTER IIL
STORMING OF C¥ROPOLIS.REVOLT OF THE SCYTIHANS.

Hiavine thus captured the five cities and reduced them to slavery in two days," he went to
Cyropolis, the largest city inthe country. It was fortified with a Wall higher than those of the
‘others, as it had been founded by Cyrus. The majority of the barbarians of this district, and
at the same time the most warlike of them, had fled for refuge thither, and consequently it
was not possible for the Macedonians to capture it so easly at the first assault, Wherefore


Page 81, Instance 1, Class: Text
STORMING OF C¥ROPOLIS.REVOLT OF THE SCYTIHANS.
Hiavine thus captured the five cities and reduced them to slavery in two days," he went to
Cyropolis, the largest city inthe country. It was fortified with a Wall higher than those of the
‘others, as it had been founded by Cyrus. The majority of the barbarians of this district, and
at the same time the most warlike of them, had fled for refuge thither, and consequently it
‘was not possible for the Macedonians to capture it so easily atthe first assault, Wherefore
‘Alexander brought his military engines up to the wall with the determination of battering it
‘down in this way, and of making assaults wherever breaches might be made in it. When be
observed that the channel of the river, which flows through the city when it is swollen by
the winter rains, was at that time nearly dry and did not reach up to the wall, and would thus


Page 82, Instance 0, Class: Text
steric Searing guards, Me archers, and’ Aerianians, and made ius way secremy tno ine cy
along the channel, at first with a few men, while the barbarians had turned theie attention
towards the military engines and those who were assiling them in that quarter. Having from
within broken open the gates which were opposite this position, he gave an easy admittance
to the rest of his soldiers. Then the barbarians, though they perceived that their city was
already in the hands of the enemy, nevertheless tuned against Alexander and his men and
made a desperate assault upon them, in which Alexander himself received a violent blow on
the head and neck with a stone, and Craterus was wounded with an arrow, as were also
many other officers. Notwithstanding this, however, they drove the barbarians out of the
marketplace. Meantime, those who had made the assault upon the wall, took it, as it was
now void of defenders. In the first capture ofthe city about 8,000 of the enemy were killed
‘The rest fled for refuge into the citadel; for 15,000 wartiors in all had gathered together in
the city. Alexander encamped around these and besieged them for one day," and then they
surrendered through lack of water. The seventh city he took a the frst assault. Ptolemy says
thatthe men init surrendered; but Aristobulus asserts that this city was aso taken by storm,
and that he slew all who were captured therein, Ptolemy also says that he distributed the
men among the army and ordered that they should be kept guarded in chains until he should
depart feom the country, s0 that none of those who had effected the revolt should be left
‘behind. Meantime an army of the Asiatic Seythians arrived at the bank of the river Tanais,
‘because most of them had heard that some ofthe barbarians on the opposite side ofthe river
had revolted from Alexander. They intended to attack the Macedonians, ifany revolutionary
movement worthy of consideration were effected. News was also brought that Spitamenes 2
was besieging the men who had been left in the citadel at Maracanda. Against him
‘Alexander then despatched Andromachus, Menedemus, and Caranus with sixty of the
‘Companion cavalry, 800 of the mercenary cavalry under the command of Caranus, and
1,500 mercenary infantry. Over them he placed Pharnuches the interpreter, who, though by
birth « Lycian, was skilled in the language of the barbarians of this country, and in other
respects appeared clever in dealing with them.
CHAPTER IV.
errr oF THe ScYTIHANS BEYOND THE TANAIS,

In twenty days he fortified the city which he was projecting, and settled in it some of the
Grecian mercenaries and those of the neighbouring barbarians who volunteered to take part
in the settlement, as well as the Macedonians from his army who were now unfit for
military services" He then offered sacrifice to the pods in his customary manner and


Page 82, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘birth a Lycian, was skilled in the language of the barbarians of this country, and in other
respects appeared clever in dealing wit then.
CHAPTER IV.
Dest OF THE ScyTMANS MEYOND THE TANASS

In twenty days he fortified the ety which he was projecting, and settled in it some of the
Grecian mercenaries and those of the neighbouring barbarians who volunteered to take part
in the setlement, as well as the Macedonians from his army who were now unfit for
military service” He then offered sacrifice to the gods in his customary manner and
celebrated an equestrian and gymnastic contest. When he saw that the Seythians were not
retiring from the river's bank, but were seen to be shooting arrows into the river, which Was
not wide here, and were uitering audacious words in their barbaric tongue to insult
‘Alexander, to the effect that he durst not touch Seythins, or if he did, he would learn What
was the difference between them and the Asiatic barbarians, he was istated by these
remarks, and having resolved 10 crossover against them, he began to prepare the skins for
the passage of the river"? But when he offered sacrifice with a View to crossing, the vietims
proved to be unfavourable; and though he was vexed at this, he nevertheless controlled
himself and remained where he was. But as the Seyhians di not desist from their insults,
hae again offered sacrifice with a view to crossing: and Aristander told him thatthe omens
sill portended danger to himself. But Alexander said tat it was better for hie to come into
extreme danger than tha, after having subdued almost the whole of Asia, he should be a
laughing-stock tothe Seythians, as Darius, the father of Xerxes, had been in days of yore.
‘Aristander refused to explain the will of the gods contrary to the revelations made by the


Page 83, Instance 0, Class: Text
eeny Siply because iexanecs Meee eee Coes eee eS ee
prepared for the passage, and the army, fully equipped, had been posted near the rive, the
military engines, atthe signal pre-concerted, began to shoot atthe Seythians riding along the
river's bank. Some of them were Wounded by the missiles, and one was struck right through
the wicker-shield and breastplate and fell from his horse, The others, being alarmed at the
discharge of missles from so great a distance, and atthe death of their champion, etreated a
litle from the bank. But Alexander, seeing them thrown into confusion by the effect of his
missiles, began to cross the river with trumpets sounding, himself leading the way; and the
rest of the army followed him. Having first got the archers and slingers across, he ordered
them to sling and shoot at the Seythians, to prevent them approaching the’ phalanx of
infantry stepping out of the water, until all his cavalry had passed over. When they were
upon the bank in dense mass, he first of all aunched against the Seythians one regiment of
the Grecian auxiliary eavalry and four squadrons of pike-men. These the Scythians received,
and in great numbers riding round them in cigcles, wounded them, as they were few in
number, themselves escaping with ease. But Alexander mixed the archers, the Agrianians, 2
and other light troops under the command of Balaerus, with the cavalry, and then led them
against the enemy. As soon as they came to close quarters, he ordered three regiments of the
cavalry Companions and all the horse-lancers to charge them. The rest of the cavalry he
hhimseif led, and made a rapid attack with his squadrons in column, Accordingly the enemy
were no longer able as before to whee! their cavalry force round in citeles, for at one and the
same time the cavalry and the ligh-armed infantry mixed with the horsemen pressed upon
them, and did not permit them to wheel about in safety. Then the flight of the Seythians was
already apparent. 1,000 of them fell, including Satraces, one of their chiefs; and 150 were
captured. But as the pursuit was keen and fatiguing on account of the excessive heat, the
centre army was seized with thist; and Alexander himself while riding drank of such water
as was procurable in that country. He was seized with an incessant diarshea; for the water
was bad; and for this reason he could not pursue all the Seythians. Otherwise I think all of
them would have perished in the flight, if Alexander had not fallen ill. He was carried back
to the camp, having fallen into extreme danger; and thus Aristander’s prophecy was
full.

CHAPTER V.
SprtaMeNts DestRo¥S A MACEDONIAN DETACHMENT,

Soow after this, arived envoys from the king of the Seythians, who were sent to apologize
for what had been done, and to state that it was not the act of the Seythian State, but of
certain men who set out for plunder after the manner of freebooters. They also assured him
that their king was willing to obey the commands laid upon him. Alexander sent to hima a
‘courteous reply, because it did not seem honourable for him to abstain from marching 2
‘against him if he distrusted him, and at that time there was not an convenient opportunity to
ddo so. The Macedonians who were garrisoning the citadel at Maracanda, when an assault
was made upoa it by Spitamenes and his adherents, sallied forth, and killing some of the
enemy and repulsing all the rest, retreated into the citadel without any loss. But when
Spitamenes was informed that the men despatched by Alexander to Maracanda were now
drawing near, he raised the siege of the citadel, and retired to the capital of Sogdiana.”!
Pharmuches and the generals with him, being eager to drive him out altogether, followed
hhim up as he was retreating towards the frontiers of Sogdiana, and without due
consideration made a joint attack upon the Nomad Seythians. Then Spitamenes, having
received a reinforcement of 600 Scythian horsemen, was further emboldened by the
Scythian alliance to wait and receive the Macedonians who were advancing upon him,
Posting his men in a level place near the Scythian desert, he was not willing either to wait


Page 83, Instance 1, Class: Text
fulfilled
CHAPTER V.
SprtaMeNts DestRo¥S A MACEDONIAN DETACHMENT,

Soow after this, arived envoys from the king of the Seythians, who were sent to apologize
for what had been done, and to state that it was not the act of the Seythian State, but of
certain men who set out for plunder after the manner of freebooters. They also assured him
that their king was willing to obey the commands laid upon him. Alexander sent to hima a
‘courteous reply, because it did not seem honourable for him to abstain from marching
‘against him if he distrusted him, and at that time there was not an convenient opportunity to
ddo so. The Macedonians who were garrisoning the citadel at Maracanda, when an assault
was made upoa it by Spitamenes and his adherents, sallied forth, and killing some of the
enemy and repulsing all the rest, retreated into the citadel without any loss. But when
Spitamenes was informed that the men despatched by Alexander to Maracanda were now
drawing near, he raised the siege of the citadel, and retired to the capital of Sogdiana.”!
Pharmuches and the generals with him, being eager to drive him out altogether, followed
hhim up as he was retreating towards the frontiers of Sogdiana, and without due
consideration made a joint attack upon the Nomad Seythians. Then Spitamenes, having
received a reinforcement of 600 Scythian horsemen, was further emboldened by the
Scythian alliance to wait and receive the Macedonians who were advancing upon him,
Posting his men in a level place near the Seythian desert, he was not willing either to wait
for the enemy or to attack them himself: but rode round and discharged arrows at the


Page 84, Instance 0, Class: Text
Sprrawees Driven 1x70 THE Doster
Bor Aristobulus says the greater part of this army was destroyed by an ambuscade, the
Scythians having hidden themselves in a park and fallen upon the Macedonians feom their
place of concealment, when Pharnuches was inthe very act of retiring from the command in
favour of the Macedonians who had been sent with him, on the ground of his not being
skilled in military affairs, and of his having been sent by Alexander rather to win the favour
of the barbarians than t0 take the supreme command in battles. He also alleged that the
Macedonian officers present were the king's Companions. But Andromachus, Menedemus,
and Caranus declined to accept the chief command, partly because it did not seem right to
make any alteration on their own responsibility contrary to Alexander's instructions to them,
and partly because in the very ersis of danger, they were unwilling if they met with any
defeat, not only individually o take a share of the blame, but also collectively to exercise
‘the command unsuecessflly. In this confusion and disorder the barbarians fell upon them,
and cut them all off, so that not more than forty horsemen and 300 foot preserved theit
lives." When the report of this reached Alexander, le was chagrined at the loss of his
soldiers, and resolved t0 march with all speed against Spitamenes and his barbarian
adherents. He therefore took half of the Companion cavalry, all the sheld-bearing guards,
the archers, the Agrianians, and the lightest men of the phalanx, and went towards
Maracanda, where he ascertained Spitamenes had returned and was again besieging the men
inthe citadel. Having travelled 1,500 stades in three days, atthe approach of dawn on the
fourth day he came near the city: but when Spitamenes was informed of Alexander's
approach, he did not remain, but abandoned the city and fled. Alexander pursued him
closely; and coming tothe place where the battle was fought, he buried his soldiers as well
as the circumstances permitted, and then followed the figitves as far as the desert
Returning thence, he laid the land waste, and slew the barbarians who had fled for refuge
into the fortified places, because they were reported to have taken part in the attack upon the
Macedonians." He traversed the whole country which the river Polytimetus waters in its


Page 84, Instance 1, Class: Text
phalanx of infantry. When the forces of Phamuches made a charge upon them, they easily

escaped, since at that time their horses were swifler and more vigorous, while the horse of
‘Andromachus had been damaged by the incessant marching, as well as by lack of fodder,
land the Seythians pressed upon them with all their might whether they halted or retreated
Many of them then were wounded by the arrows, and some were killed. They therefore
arranged the soldiers into the form of a square and proceeded to the river Polytimetus,
‘because there was a woody glen near it, and it would consequently no longer be easy forthe 2
barbarians to shoot arrows at them, and their infantry would be more useful to them. But
Caranus, the commander of the cavalry, without communicating with Andromachus,
attempted to eross the river in order to put the cavalry ina place of safety on the other side.
‘The infantry followed him without any word of command: their deseent into the river being
made in a panic and without any discipline down the precipitous banks. When the
barbarians perceived the ertor ofthe Macedonians, they sprang into the ford here and there,
horses and all. Some of them seized and held tight those who had already crossed and were
departing; others being posted right in front of those who were crossing, rolled them over
into the siver; others shot arrows at them from the flanks; while others pressed upon the men
Who were just entering the water. The Macedonians being thus encompassed with difficulty
‘on all sides, fled for refuge into one of the small islands in the river, where they were
entirely surrounded by the Seythians and the cavalry of Spitamenes, and all killed with
arrows, except a few of them, whom they reduced to slavery. All ofthese were afterwards
Killed.


Page 85, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER VIL
‘TRearwent oF BEssts.
Wien he had accomplished this, he came to Zariaspa; where he remained until the depth of
‘winter artived.°® At this time came to him Phrataphemes the vieeroy of Parthia, and
Stasanor, who had been sent into the land of the Afeians to arrest Arsames." Him they
‘brought with them in chains, as also Barzanes, whom Bessus had appointed viceroy of the
land ofthe Parthians, and some others of those who at that time had joined Bessus ia revolt.
‘At the same time arrived from the sea, Epocillus,**! Melamnidas and Ptolemy, the general
‘of the Thracian, who had convoyed down to the sea the Grecian allies and the money sent. 2
‘with Menes.°* At this time also arrived Asander and Nearchus at the head of an army of
Grecian meroenaties.°” Asclepiodorus, viceroy of Syria, and Menes the deputy also arrived
from the sea, at the head of another army. Then Alexander gathered a conference of those
‘who were then at hand, and led Bessus in before them. Having accused him of the betrayal
‘of Darius, he ordered his nose and ears to be cutoff, and that he should be taken to Ecbatana
to be put to death therein the council ofthe Medes and Persians.° I do not commend this,
excessive punishment; on the contrary, 1 consider that the mutilation of the prominent
features of the body is a barbaric" custom, and I agree with those who say that Alexander
‘was induced to indulge his desie of emulating the Median and Persian wealth and to treat
his subjects as inferior beings according to the custom of the foreign kings. Nor do I by any
means commend him for changing the Macedonian style of dress which his fathers had
adopted, for the Median one,” being as he was a descendant of Heracles.” Besides, he
‘was not ashamed to exchange the head-aress which he the congueror had so long worn, for 2
that of the conquered Persians. None of these things do I commend; but 1 consider
‘Alexander's great achievements prove, if anything can, that supposing @ man to have a
Vigorous bodily constitution, to be illustrious in descent, and to be even more successful in
‘war than Alexander himself even supposing he could sail right round Libya as well as Asia,
and hold them both in subjection as Alexander indeed designed; even if he could add the
possession of Europe to that of Asia and Libya: all these things would be no furtherance to
such a man’s happiness, unless atthe same time he possess the power of self-control, though
hh has performed the great deeds which have been supposed.
CHAPTER VIIL


Page 85, Instance 1, Class: Text
for though it has abundance of water, it disappears into the sand.°* Other large and
perennial rivers in that region disappear in a similar way:—the Epardus, which flows
‘through the land of the Mardians; the Areius, after which the country of the Areians is
‘named; and the Etymander, which flows through the territory of the Euergetae.*” All of
these are rivers of such a size that none of them is smaller than the Thessalian river Peneius,
‘hich flows through Tempé and discharges itself into the sea. The Polytimetus is much too
large to be compared with te river Peneius.*


Page 85, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHAPTER VIIL
‘Tur Murpen oF Curtus,
Here also T shall give an account of the tragic fate of Clitus, son of Dropidas, and of
‘Alexander's mishap in regard to it. Though it occurred a litle while after this, it will not be
‘out place here. The Macedonians kept a day sacted to Dionysus, and on that day Alexander
used to offer sacrifice to him every year. But they say that on this occasion he was


Page 86, Instance 0, Class: Text
Dogiectiu! of Dicaysus,' anid sacrificed to Me Inosclirr’ | sstead; for he had resolved to
offer sacifie to those deities for some reason or other. When the drinking-party on this,
‘occasion had already gone on too long (for Alexander had now made innovations even in
regard to drinking, by imitating the custom of foreigners), and in the midst of the earouse a
discussion had arisen about the Dioscur, how their procreation had been taken away from 2
‘Tyndareus and ascribed to Zeus, some of those present, in order to flatter Alexander,
maintained that Polydeuces and Castor were in no way worthy to compare with him who
hhad performed so many exploits. Such men have always corrupted the character of kings
and will never cease to ruin the interests of those who happen to be reigning.°" In their
arousal they did not even abstain from (comparing him with) Heracles; saying that envy
prevented the living from receiving the honours due to them from their associates. It was
Well known that Clitus had long been vexed at Alexander for the change in his style of
living in imitation of foreign kings, and at those who flatered him with thir speech. At that
time also, being heated with wine, he would not permit them either to insult the deity or, by
depreciating the deeds of the ancient heroes, to confer upon Alexander a gratification which
deserved n0 thanks. He affirmed Alexander's deeds were neither in fact so great or
marvellous as they represented in their laudation; nor had he achieved them by himself, bt
for the most part they were the deeds of the Macedonians. The delivery of this speech
annoyed Alexander; and I do not commend it, for I think, in such a drunken bout, it would
hhave been sufficient if, so far as he was personally concemed, he had kept silence, and not
committed the error of indulging in the same flattery as the others. But when some even
mentioned Philip's actions without exercising a just judgment, declaring that he had
performed nothing great or marvellous, they gratified Alexander; but Clitus being then no
longer able to contain himself, began to put Philip’s achievements in the first rank, and to
depreciate Alexander and his performances.“ Clits being now quite intoxicated, made 2
‘other insolent remarks and even greatly reviled him, because forsooth he had saved his life,
When the cavalry battle had been fought with the Persians atthe Granicus. Then indeed,
arrogantly stretching out his right hand, he said:—“This hand, O Alexander, preserved thee
‘on that occasion.” Alexander could now no longer endure the drunken insolence of Clitus;
‘but jumped up against him in a great rage. He was however restrained by his boon-
companions. As Clitus did not desist from his insulting remarks, Alexander shouted out a
summons for his shiekd-bearing guards to attend him; but when no one obeyed him, he said
that he was reduced to the same positon as Darius, when he was led about under arrest by
Bessus and his adherents, and that he now possessed the mete name of king. Then his
companions were no longer able to restrain him; for according to some he leaped up and
snatched a javelin from one of his confidential body-guards; aveording to others, along pike
from one of his ordinary guards, with which he struck Clitus and Killed him. Aristobulus
does not say whence the drunken quarrel originated, but asserts thatthe fault was entirely on
the side of Clitus, who, when Alexander had got so enraged with him as to jump up against
‘him withthe intention of making an end of him, was led away by Ptolemy, son of Lagus, the
confidential body-guard, through the gateway, beyond the wall and ditch of the citadel
Where the quarrel occurred. He adds that Clitus could not control himself, but went back
again, and falling in with Alexander who was calling out for Clitus, he exclaimed
"Alexander, here is Clitus!” Thereupon he was struck with along pike and killed.

CHAPTER IX.
Aueruenme's Cater pom Corr


Page 87, Instance 0, Class: Text
praise, because directly after he had done the deed he recognised that it was a horrible one.
Some of his biographers even say that he propped the pike against the wall with the
intention of falling upon it himself, thinking tha it was not proper for him to live who had
Killed his friend when under the influence of wine. Most historians do not mention tis, but
say that he went off to bed and lay there lamenting, calling Clitus himself by name, and his
sister Lanice, daughter of Dropidas, who had been his nurse. He exclaimed that having
reached man’s estate he had forsooth bestowed on her a noble reward for her care in rearing
him, as she lived to see her own sons die fighting on his behalf, and the king slaying her
brother with his own hand.** He did not cease calling himself the murderer of his friends;
and for three days rigidly abstained trom food and drink, and paid no attention whatever to
his personal appearance. Some of the soothsayers revealed that the avenging wrath of
Dionysus had been the cause of his conduct, because he had omitted the sacrifice to that
deity.“ At last with great difficulty he was induced by his companions to touch food and to
‘ay proper attention to His person.“ He then paid to Dionysus the sacrifice due to him,»
since he was not at all unwilling to attribute the fatality rather to the avenging wrath of the
deity than to his own depravity think Alexander deserves great praise for this, that he did
not obstinately persevere in evil, or still worse become a defender and advocate of the
wrong which had been done, but confessed that he had committed a erime, being a man and
not a god. There are some who say that Anaxarchus the Sophist™* was summoned into
‘Alexander's presence to give him consolation. Finding him lying down and groaning, he
laughed at him, and said that he did not know that the wise men of old for this reason made
Justice an assessor of Zeus, because whatever was done by him was justly done”; and
therefore also that which was done by the Great King ought to be deemed just, inthe frst
place by the king himself, and then by the rest of men. They say that Alexander was then
‘greatly consoled by these remarks. But I assert that Anaxarchus did Alexander a great
injury and one stil greater than that by which he was then oppressed, if he really thought
tis to be the opinion of a wise man, that forsooth it is proper fora king to come to hasty
conclusions and act unjustly, and that whatever is done by a king must be deemed just, no.
matter how itis done. There is also a curtent report that Alexander wished men to prostrate
themselves before him as toa god, entertaining the notion that Ammon was his father, rather
than Philip; and that he now showed his admiration of the customs of the Persians and
Medes by changing the style of his dress, and by the alteration he made in the general
etiquette of his court. There were not wanting those who in regard to these matters gave way
to his wishes with the design of flattering him; among others being Anaxarchus, one of the
philosophers attending his court, and Agis, an Argive who was an epic poet.”
CHAPTER X.
Dispute neTWrEN CALLISTHENES AND ANAXARCHUS,

Bur itis said that Callishenes the Olynthian, who had studied philosophy under Aristotle,
and was somewhat brusque in is manner, did not approve of this conduct: and so far as this,
is concemed I quite agree with him. But the following remark of his, if indeed it has been
‘correctly recorded, I do not think at all proper, when he declared that Alexander and his


Page 87, Instance 1, Class: Text
DISPUTE BETWHEN CALLISTIENES AND ANANARCHUS,
Br itis said that Calisthenes the Olynthian, who had studied philosophy under Aristtle,
and was somewhat brusque in his manner, did not approve of this conduct: and so fr as this
is concemed I quite agree with him. But the following remark of his, i indeed it has been
correctly recorded, I do not think at all proper, when he declared that Alexander and his
exploits were dependent upon him and his history, and that he had not come to him to
acquite reputation from him, but to make him renowned inthe eyes of men: consequently
that Alexander's participation in divinity did not depend on the False assertion of Olympias
in regard to the author of his bith, but on what he might report mankind inhi history of
the king. There are some writers also who have said that on one occasion Philots forsooth
asked him, what man he thought to beheld in especial honour by the people of Athens; and
that he repied:—“Harmodius and Aristogeiton; because they slew one of the two despots,


Page 88, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XI.

‘Cxttisrueves Opposes tite PROPOSAL 10 HONOUR ALEXANDER BY PROSTRATION.
Waren Anaxarchus had uttered these remarks and others of a similar kind, those who were
privy to the plan applauded his speech, and wished at once to begin the ceremony of
prostration, Most of the Macedonians, however, were vexed" at the speech and kept
silence. But Callsthenes interposed and said:—“O Anaxarchus, | openly declare that there
is no honour which Alexander is unworthy to receive, provided that it is consistent with his
‘being human; but men have made distinctions between those honours which are due to men,
and those due to gods, in many different ways, as for instance by the building of temples
and by the erection of statues. Moreover for the gods sacred enclosures are selected, to them
sacrifie is offered, and to them libations are made. Hymns also are composed in honour of
the gods, and eulogies for men. But the greatest distinction is made by the custom of
prostration, For its the practice that men should be kissed by those who salute them’; but
‘because the deity i located somewhere above, itis not lawl even to touch him, and this is,
the reason no doubt why he is honoured by prostration. Bands of choral dancers are also
appointed forthe gods, and paeans are sung in their honour. And this isnot at all wonderful,
seeing that certain honours are specially assigned to some of the gods and certain others to
other gods, and, by Zeus, quite different ones again are assigned to heroes, which are very
distinct from those paid to the deities.” I is not therefore reasonable to confound all these
distinctions without discrimination, exalting men to a rank above their condition by
extravagant accumulation of honours, and debasing the gods, as far as les in human power,
to an unseemly level, by paying them honours only equal to those paid to men.” He said that
‘Alexander would not endute the affront, if some private individual were to be thrust into his
royal honours by an unjust vot, either by show of hand or by ballot. Much more justly then
would the gods be indignant at those mortals who usuep divine honours or suffer themselves
to be thrust into them by others. “Alexander not only seems to be, but is in reality beyond
any competition the bravest of brave men, of kings the most kingly, and of generals the most
worthy to command an army. O Anaxarchus, it was thy duty, rather than any other man’s, to
‘become the special advocate ofthese arguments now adduced by me, and the opponent of
‘those contrary o them, seeing that thou associatest with him for the purpose of imparting
philosophy and instruction. Therefore it was unseemly to begin this discussion, when thou


Page 88, Instance 1, Class: Text
(ane put an ene to the despolism.”{atiotas again asked. it happened now that a man
should Kill a despot, to which of the Grecian States would you wish him to flee for
preservation?” Callsthenes again replied:—"If not among others, at any rate among the
‘Athenians an exile would find preservation; for they waged war on behalf of the sons of
Heracles against Eurystheus, who at that time was ruling as a despot over Greece." How
hae resisted Alexander in regard to the ceremony of prostration, the following is the most
received account" An arrangement was made between Alexander and the Sophists in
Conjunction with the most illustrious of the Persians and Medes who were in attendance
upon him, tht this topic should be mentioned at a wine-party. Anaxarchus commenced the
discussion" by saying that he considered Alexander much more worthy of being deemed a
‘god than either Dionysus or Heracles, not only on account ofthe very numerous and mighty
exploits which he had performed, but also because Dionysus was only a Theban, in no way 2
related to Macedonians; and Heracles was an Atgive, not at all related to them, except that
‘Alexander deduced his descent from him. He added that the Macedonians’ might with
‘greater justice gratify their king with divine honours, for there was no doubt about this, that
When he departed from men they would honour him as a god. How much more just then
Would it be to worship him while alive, than after his death, when it would be no advantage
to him to be honoured.


Page 89, Instance 0, Class: Text
Camibyses ot Xerxes, but to the son of Philip, who derives his origin from Heracles and
‘Acacus,* whose ancestors came into Macedonia from Argos, and have continued to rule»
‘the Macedonians, not by force, but by law. Not even to Heracles himself while stil alive
were divine honours paid by the Greeks; and even after his death they were withheld until a
decree had been published by the oracle of the god at Delphi that men should honour
Heracles as a god. But if, because the discussion is held in the land of foreigners, we
‘ought 10 adopt the sentiments of foreigners, I demand, O Alexander, that thou shouldst
bethink thyself of Greece, for whose sake the whole of this expedition was undertaken by
‘thee, that thou mightest join Asia to Greece. Therefore make up thy mind whether thou wilt
return thither and compel the Greeks, who are men most devoted to freedom, 1 pay thee the
honour of prostration, o whether thou wilt Keep aloof from Greece, and inflict this honour
‘on the Macedonians alone, or thirdly whether thou wilt thyself make a difference in every
respect as to the honours to be paid thee, so as to be honoured by the Greeks and
Macedonians as a human being and after the manner of the Greeks, and by foreigners alone
after the foreign fashion of prostration. Buti tis said that Cyrus, son of Cambyses, was the
first man to whom the honour of prostation was paid, and that afterwards this degrading
‘ceremony continued in vogue among the Persians and Medes, we ought to bear in mind that
‘the Seythians, men poor but independent, chastised that Cyrus; that other Seythians again
chastised Darius, as the Athenians and Lacedaemonians did Xerxes, as Clearchus and
Xenophon with their 10,000 followers did Artaxerxes: and finally, that Alexander, though
not honoured with prostration, has conquered this Darius.”
CHAPTER XIL
Cattistuvts REFUsts 10 Prosreare HiMSELE

By making these and other remarks of similar kind, Callisthenes greatly annoyed
‘Alexander, but spoke the exact sentiments of the Macedonians. When the king perceived
‘his, he sent to prevent the Macedonians from making any farther mention of the ceremony
‘of prostration. But after the discussion silence ensued; and then the most honourable of the
Persians arose in due order and prostrated their bodies before him. But when one of the
Persians seemed to have performed the ceremony in an awkward Way, Leonnatus, one of the
‘Companions, laughed at his posture as mean. Alexander atthe time was angry with him for
tis, but was afterwards reconciled to him. *! The following account has also been given: —
‘Alexander drank from a golden goblet the health ofthe circle of guests, and handed it frst
to those with whom he had concerted the ceremony of prostration. The first who drank from
the goblet rose up and performed the act of prostration, and received a kiss from him. This
ceremony proceeded from one to another in due order. But when the pledging of health
came to the turn of Callisthenes, he rose up and drank fom the goblet, and drew near,
wishing to kiss the king without performing the at of prostration. Alexander happened then
to be conversing with Hephaestion, and consequently did not observe whether Callisthenes
performed the ceremony properly or not. But when Callsthenes was approaching to kiss
him, Demetrius, son of Pythonax, one of the Companions, said that he was doing so without
having prostrated himseif. So the king would not permit him to kiss him; whereupon the
philosopher said:—“I am going away only withthe loss of a kiss” I by no means approve 2
any ofthese proceedings, which manifested both the insolence of Alexander on the present
‘occasion and the churlish nature of Calisthenes. But I think that, so far as regards himself, it
would have been quite sufficient if he had given his opinion discreetly, magnifying as much
as possible the exploits ofthe king, with whom no one thought it a dishonour to associate.
‘Therefore I consider that not without reason Callisthenes became odious to Alexander on


Page 89, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘oughtest to have remembered that thou art not associating with and giving advice to
‘Cambyses or Xerxes, but to the son of Philip, who derives his origin from Heracles and
‘Acacus,* whose ancestors came into Macedonia from Argos, and have continued to rule
‘the Macedonians, not by force, but by law. Not even to Heracles himself while stil alive
were divine honours paid by the Greeks; and even after his death they were withheld until a
decree had been published by the oracle of the god at Delphi that men should honour
Heracles as a god. But if, because the discussion is held in the land of foreigners, we
‘ought 10 adopt the sentiments of foreigners, I demand, O Alexander, that thou shouldst
bethink thyself of Greece, for whose sake the whole of this expedition was undertaken by
‘thee, that thou mightest join Asia to Greece. Therefore make up thy mind whether thou wilt
return thither and compel the Greeks, who are men most devoted to freedom, 1 pay thee the
honour of prostration, o whether thou wilt Keep aloof from Greece, and inflict this honour
‘on the Macedonians alone, or thirdly whether thou wilt thyself make a difference in every
respect as to the honours to be paid thee, so as to be honoured by the Greeks and
Macedonians as a human being and after the manner of the Greeks, and by foreigners alone
after the foreign fashion of prostration. Buti tis said that Cyrus, son of Cambyses, was the
first man to whom the honour of prostation was paid, and that afterwards this degrading
‘ceremony continued in vogue among the Persians and Medes, we ought to bear in mind that
‘the Seythians, men poor but independent, chastised that Cyrus; that other Seythians again
chastised Darius, as the Athenians and Lacedaemonians did Xerxes, as Clearchus and
Xenophon with their 10,000 followers did Artaxerxes: and finally, that Alexander, though
not honoured with prostration, has conquered this Darius.”


Page 90, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XIIL
Conspimacy oF THe Pass
Ir was a custom introduced by Philip, thatthe sons of those Macedonians who had enjoyed
high office, should, as soon as they reached the age of puberty, be selected to attend the
king's court. These youths were entrusted with the general attendance on the king's person
and the protection of his body while he was asleep. Whenever the king rode out, some of
them received the horses from the grooms, and brought them to him, and others assisted him
‘to mount in the Persian fashion. They were also companions ofthe king in the emulation of 2
the chase.*® Among these youths was Hermolalis, son of Sopolis, who seemed to be
applying his mind to the study of philosophy, and to be cultivating the society of
Callisthenes for this purpose. There is current a tale about this youth to the effect that inthe
chase, a boar rushed at Alexander, and that Hermolais anticipated him by casting a javelin
at the beast, by which it was smitten and killed. But Alexander, having lot the opportunity
of distinguishing himself by being too late in the assault, was indignant with Hermolais,
and in his wrath ordered him to receive a scourging in sight of the other pages: and also
deprived him of his horse. This Hermolais, being chagrined at the disgrace he had incurred,
told Sostratus, son of Amynias, who was his equal in age and intimate confidential friend,
that life would be insupportable to him unless he could take vengeance upon Alexander for
the affront. He easily persuaded Sostratus to join in the enterprise, since he was fondly
attached to him. They gained over to their plans Antipater, son of Asclepiodorus, viceroy of
Syria, Epimenes son of Arseas, Antcles son of Theoertus, and Philotas son of Carsis the
Thracian. They therefore agreed to Kill the king by attacking him in his sleep, on the night
When the nocturnal watch came round to Antipate’s tum, Some say that Alexander
accidentally happened to be drinking until daybreak; but Aristobulus has given the
following account: A Syrian woman, who was under the inspiration of the deity, used to
follow Alexander about. At fist she was a subject of mirth to Alexander and his courtiers;
‘but when all that she said in her inspiration was seen to be true, he no longer treated her 2
with neplet, but she was allowed to have free access to him both by night and day, and she
often took her stand near him even when he was asleep. And indeed on that occasion, when
the was withdrawing from the drinking-party she met him, being under the inspiration ofthe
deity atthe time, and besought him to retum and drink all night. Alexander, thinking that
there was something divine in the warning, returned and went on drinking: and thus the
enterprise of the pages fell through! The next day, Epimenes son of Arseas, one of those
Who took part in the conspiracy, spoke of the undertaking to Chaticles son of Menander,
who had become his confidential friend: and Charicles told it to Eurylochus, brother of
Epimenes. Eurylochus went to Alexander’ tent and related the whole affair to Ptolemy son
‘of Lagus, one ofthe confidential body-guards. He told Alexander, who ordered those whose
names had been mentioned by Eurylochus to be arrested. These, being put on the rack,
confessed their own conspiracy, and mentioned the names of certain others
CHAPTER XIV.


Page 90, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘egregious fatuity of his conduct. I surmise that this was the reason why such easy credit was
_2iven to those who accused him of participating in the conspiracy formed against Alexander
by his pages, and to those also who affirmed that they had been incited to engage in the
‘conspiracy by him alone. The facts ofthis conspiracy were as follows: —


Page 91, Instance 0, Class: Text
ARISTOBULUS says that the youths asserted it was Callisthenes who instigated them to make
‘the daring attempt; and Ptolemy says the same.** Most writers, however, do not ageee with»
this, but represent that Alexander readily believed the worst about Callisthenes, fom the
hatred which he already felt towards him, and because Hermolais was known to be
exceedingly intimate with him, Some authors have also recorded the following particulars:
that Hermolais was brought before the Macedonians, to whom he confessed that he had
conspired against the kings life, because it was no longer possible fora free man to beat his
insolent tyranny. He then recounted all his acts of despotism, the illegal execution of
Philota, the sill more illegal one of his father Parmenio and of the others who were put to
death at that time, the murder of Clitus in a fit of drunkenness, his assumption ofthe Median
‘garb, the introduction of the ceremony of prostration, which had been planned and not yet
relinquished, and the drinking-bouts and lethargic sleep arising from them, to which he was
addicting himself. He said that, being no longer able to bear these things, he wished to
fiee both himself and the other Macedonians. These same authors say that Hermolais
himself and those who had been arrested with him were stoned to death by those who were
present. Avistobulus says that Callsthenes was carried about with the army bound with
fetters, and afterwards died a natural death; but Ptolemy, son of Lagus, says that he was
stretched upon the rack and then hanged.” Thus not even did these authors, whose
narratives are very trustworthy, and who at the time were in intimate association with
‘Alexander, give accounts consistent with each other of events so well known, and the
éireumstanees of which could not have escaped their notice. Other writers have given many
Various details of these same proceedings which are inconsistent with each other; but think
Thave written quite sufficient on this subject. Though these events took place shortly after
the death of Clitus,°* I have described them among those which happened to Alexander in
reference to that General, because, for the purposes of narrative, I consider them very
intimately connected with each other
CHAPTER XV.
ALLIANCE WITH THE SCYTHIANS AND CHORASMIANS,

AxorteR embassy from the European Seythians came to Alexander with the envoys whom
hhe had despatched to those people; for the king who was reigning over them atthe time
when he sent these envoys, happened to die, and his brother was reigning in his stead. The
‘object of the embassy Was 10 state that the Seythians were willing to do whatsoever
‘Alexander commanded. They were also bringing to him from their king the gifts which
among them are deemed most valuable. They said their monarch was willing to give his
daughter to Alexander in marriage, in order to confirm the friendship and alliance with him;
but if Alexander himself deigned not to marry the princess of the Seythians, then he was
willing a any rate to give the daughters of the vieeroys of the Scythian territory and of the
‘other mighty men throughout the country of Scythia to the most faithful of Alexander's,
officers. He also sent word that he would come in person if bidden, in order to ear from
‘Alexander's own mouth what his orders were. At this time also came Pharasmanes, king of
the Chorasmians,*” to Alexander with 1,500 horsemen, who affirmed that he dwelt on the
confines of the nations ofthe Colchians and the women called Amazons,” and promised, if
‘Alexander was willing to march against these nations in order to subjugate the Faces in this,
district whose territories extended to the Euxine Sea, 10 act as his guide through the
‘mountains and to supply his army with provisions. Alexander then gave a courteous reply to
the men who had come from the Scythians, and one that was adapted to the exigencies of


Page 91, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XV.
ALLIANCE WITILTHE SCYTIUANS AND CHORASMANS,
ANorieR embassy from the European Seythians came to Alexander with the envoys whom
hhe had despatched to those people; for the king who was reigning over them at the time
when he sent these envoys, happened to die, and his brother was reigning in his stead. The
‘object of the embassy was 10 state that the Seythians were willing to do whatsoever
‘Alexander commanded. They were also bringing to him from their king the gifts which
among them are deemed most valuable. They said their monarch was willing to give his
daughter to Alexander in marriage, in order to confirm the friendship and alliance with him;
Dut if Alexander himself deigned not to marry the princess of the Seythians, then he was
willing at any rate to give the daughters of the viceroys of the Scythian territory and of the
‘other mighty men throughout the country of Seythia to the most faithful of Alexander's
officers. He also sent word that he would come in person if bidden, in order to heat from
‘Alexander's own mouth what his orders were, At this time also came Pharasmanes, king of
the Chorasmians,*® to Alexander with 1,500 horsemen, who affirmed that he dwelt on the
confines of the nations ofthe Colchians and the women called Amazons," and promised, if
‘Alexander was willing to march against these nations in order to subjugate the races in this
Alistriet whose territories extended to the Euxine Sea, to act as his guide through the
mountains and to supply his army with provisions. Alexander then gave a courteous reply to
the men who had come from the Seythians, and one that was adapted to the exigencies of
that particular time; but said that he had no need of a Scythian wedding. He also
‘commended Pharasmanes and concluded a friendship and alliance with him, saying that at
present it was not convenient for him to march towards the Euxine Sea. After introducing


Page 92, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XVI.
SSURIUGATION OF SOGDIANA.—REVOLT OF SPITAMENES.

He therefore crossed the river with a part of his army and entered Sogdiana, leaving
Polysperchon, Attalus, Gorgias, and Meleager there among the Bactrians, with instructions
to guard the land, to prevent the barbarians of that region from making any revolutionary
change, and to reduce those who had already rebelled. He divided the army which he had
With him into five parts; the ftst of which he put under the command of Hephaestion, the
second under that of Ptolemy, son of Lagus, the confidential body-guard; over the third he
put Perdiceas; Coenus and Artabazus commanded the fourth brigade for him, while be
himself took the fifth division and penetrated into the land towards Maracanda,*”* The
‘others also advanced as each found it practicable, reducing by force some of those who had
fled for refuge into the strongholds, and capturing others who surrendered to them on terms
‘of capitulation. When all his forces reached Maracanda, after traversing the greater part of
the land of the Sogdianians, he sent Hephaestion away to plant colonies in the cities of
Sogdiana. He also sent Coenus and Artabazus into Scythia, because he was informed that
Spitamenes had fled for refuge thither; but he himself with the rest of his army traversed
Sogdiana and easily reduced all the places still held by the rebels.

While Alexander was thus engaged, Spitamenes, accompanied by some of the
Sogdianian exiles, fled into the land of the Seythians called Massagetians,”™ and having
collected 600 horsemen from this nation, he came to one of the forts in Bactriana. Paling
upon the commander of this fort, who was not expecting any hostile demonstration, and
upon those who were keeping guard with him, he destroyed the soldiers, and capturing the
‘commander, kept him in custody. Being emboldened by the capture of this fort, afew days
after he approached Zariaspa; but resolving not to attack the city, he marched away after
collecting a great quantity of booty. But at Zariaspa a few of the Companion cavalry had
‘been left behind on the score of illness, and with them Peithon, son of Sosicles,”* who had
been placed over the royal household of attendants at Zariaspa, and Aristonicus the harper.
‘These men, hearing of the incursion of the Seythians, and having now recovered from their
illness, took their arms and mounted their horses. Then collecting eighty mereenary Grecian
horsemen, who had been left behind to guard Zariaspa, and some of the royal pages, they
sallied forth against the Massagetians. Falling upon the Seythians, who had no suspicion of
such an event, they deprived them ofall the booty atthe fist onset, and killed many of those


Page 92, Instance 1, Class: Text
Pharasmanes as a friend to Artabazus the Persian, to whom he had intrusted the government
of the Bactrians”! and to all the other viceroys who were his neighbours, he sent him back
to his own abode. He said that his mind at that time was engrossed by the desire of
conquering the Indians; for wen he had subdued them, he should possess the whole of
Asia. He added that when Asia was in his power he would retum to Greece, and thence
make an expedition with all his naval and military forces to the eastern extremity of the
Euxine Sea through the Hellespont and Propontis.*” He desired Pharasmanes to reserve the
fulfilment of his present promises until then,

‘Alexander then returned to the river Oxus, with the intention of advancing into 2
Sogdiana, because news was brought that many ofthe Sogdianians had fled for refuge into
their strongholds and refused to submit to the viceroy whom he had placed over them.
While he was encamping near the river Oxus, a spring of water and near it another of oil
rose from the ground not far from Alexander's own tent. When this prodigy was announced
to Ptolemy, son of Lagus, the confidential body-guard, he told Alexander, who offered the
sacrifices which the prophets directed on account of the phenomenon. Aristander affirmed
thatthe spring of oil was the sign of labours; but it also signified that after the labours there
would be vietory.


Page 93, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XVIL
Deveat aND DeaTit oF SPrtAMENES
Wutex this news was brought to Craterus, he made a forced march against the Massagetians,
‘who, when they heard that he was marching against them, fled as fast as they could towards
the desert. Following them up closely, he overtook those very men and more than 1,000
other Massagetian horsemen, not far from the desert. A fierce battle ensued, in which the
Macedonians were victorious. Of the Scythians, 150 horsemen were slain; but the rest of
them easly escaped into the desert, for it was impossible for the Macedonians to pursue
them any further. At this time, Alexander relieved Artabazus of the viceroyally of the
Bactrians, at his own request, on the ground of his advanced age; and Amyntas, son of
‘Nicolas, was appointed viceroy in his stead.°”” Coenus was left with his own brigade and >
that of Meleager, 400 of the Companion cavalry, and all the horse-archers, besides the
Bactrians, Sogdianians, and others who were under the command of Amyntas. They were all
under strict injunctions to obey Coenus and to winter there in Sogdiana, in order to protect
the country and to arrest Spitamenes, if anyhow they might be able 10 draw hina into an
ambush, as he was wandering about during the winter. But when Spitamenes saw that every
place was occupied by the Macedonians fora garrison, and that there would Soon be no way
Of flight left open to him, he tuned round against Coenus and the army with him, thinking
that he would be better able to fight in this way. Coming to Bagae, a fortified place in
Sogdiana, situated on the confines of the countries of the Sogdianians and the Massagetian
Scythians, he easily persuaded 3,000 Scythian horsemen to join him in an invasion of
Sogdiana. Its an easy matter to induce these Seythians to engage in one war after another,
‘because they are pinched by poverty, and at the same time have no cities or settled abodes,
tw give them cause for anxiely about what is most dear to them. When Coenus ascertained
‘that Spitamenes was advancing with his cavalry, he went t0 meet him with his army. A sharp
contest ensued, in which the Macedonians were Victorious, so that of the barbarian cavalry
‘over 800 fell in the battle, while Coenus lost 25 horsemen and twelve foot-soldiers. The
consequence was, that the Sogdianians who were sil left with Spitamenes, as well as most
fof the Bactrians, deserted him in the flight, and came to Coenus to surrender. The
Massagetian Seythians having met with ill-success in the battle, plundered the baggage of
the Bactrians and Sogdianians who were serving in the same army as themselves, and then
fled into the desert in company with Spitamenes. But when they were informed that
‘Alexander was already on the start to march into the desert, they cut off the head of 2
Spitamenes and sent it to him, with the hope by this deed of diverting him from pursuing
them.”
CHAPTER XVIIL
Oxvarres BESIEGED IN THE SOGDIAN Rock.


Page 93, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘who were driving it off. But as no one was in command, they returned without any regard to
order: and being drawn info an ambush by Spitamenes and other Seythians, they lost seven
‘ofthe Companions and sixty ofthe mercenary cavalry. Atistonicus the harper was also slain
there, having proved himself a brave man, beyond What might have been expected of a
harper. Peithon, being wounded, was taken prisoner by the Seythians..”°


Page 94, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘the Mardians and Tapurians to fetch Autophradates the viceroy, because, though he had
‘often been sent for, he did not obey the summons. He also sent Stasanor into the land of the
Drangians, and Atropates into Media.” with the appointment of viceroy over the Medes,
because Oxodates seemed disaffected to him. Stamenes also he despatched to Babylon,
because news came to him that Mazaeus the Babylonian governor was dead. Sopolis,
Epocillus, and Menidas he sent away to Macedonia, to bring him the army up from that
country. At the first appearance of spring,” he advanced towards the rock in Sogdiana, to
Which he was informed many of the Sosdianians had fled for refuge; among whom were
said to be the wife and daughters of Oxyartes the Bacrian, who had deposited them for
safety in that place, as if forsooth it were impregnable. For he also had revolted from 2
‘Alexander. If this rock was captured, it seemed that nothing would be left to those of the
Sogdianians who wished to throw off their allegiance. When Alexander approached it, he
found it precipitous on all sides against assault, and that the barbarians had collected
provisions for along siege. The great quantity of show which had fallen helped to make the
approach more difficult to the Macedonians, while at the same time it kept the barbarians
supplied with plenty of water. But notwithstanding allthis, he resolved to assault the place;
fora certain overweening and insolent boast uttered by the barbarians had thrown him into &
\wrathful state of ambitious pertinacity. For when they were invited to come to terms of
capitulation, and it was held out to them as an inducement, that if they surrendered the
place, they would be allowed to withdraw in safety to their own abodes, they burst out
laughing, and in their barbaric tongue bade Alexander seek winged soldiers, to eapture the
mountain for him, since they had no apprehension of danger from other men.*! He then
issued a proclamation that the first man who mounted should have a reward of twelve
talents, the man who came next to him the second prize, and the third so on in proportion,
so that the last reward should be three hundred daries™ to the last prize-taker who reached
the top. This proclamation excited the valour of the Macedonians still more, though they
were even before very eager to commence the assault
CHAPTER XIX.
ALIXANDER CAPTURES THE ROCK AND MARRIES ROXANA,
Att the meen who had eained nractice in acaline mncive in sianes. banded themsshves tneether


Page 94, Instance 1, Class: Text
ALEXANDER CAPTURES THE ROCK AND MARRIES ROXANA,
‘ALL the men who had gained practice in scaling rocks in sieges, banded themselves together
to the number of three hundred, and provided themselves with the small ion pegs with
Which their tents had been fastened to the ground, with the intention of fixing them into the
snow, where it might be seen to be frozen hard, or into the ground, if it should anywhere
exhibit itself free from snow. Tying strong ropes made of flax to these pegs, they advanced
in the night towards the most precipitous part ofthe rock, which was also most unguarded;
and fixing some of these pegs ito the earth, where it made itself visible, and others into the
snow where it seemed least likely to break up, they hoisted themselves up the rock, some in
‘one place and some in another. Thirty of them perished in the ascent; and as they fell into
various parts of the snows, not even could their bodies be found for burial. The rest,
however, reached the top of the mountain atthe approach of dawn; and taking possession of
it, they waved linen flags towards the camp of the Macedonians,°* as Alexander had
directed them to do. He now sent a herald with instructions to shout to the sentries of the
barbarians to make no further delay, but surrender at once; since “the winged men” had been
found, and the summits of the mountain were in their possession, At the same time the
herald pointed at the soldiers upon the erest of the mountain. The barbarians, being alarmed
by the unexpectedness of the sight, and suspecting that the men who were occupying the
peaks were more numerous than they really were, and that they were completely armed,
surrendered, so frightened did they become at the sight of those few Macedonians. The


Page 94, Instance 2, Class: Text
found it precipitous on all sides against assault, and that the barbarians had collected
provisions for along siege. The great quantity of show which had fallen helped to make the
approach more difficult to the Macedonians, while at the same time it kept the barbarians
supplied with plenty of water. But notwithstanding allthis, he resolved to assault the place;
fora certain overweening and insolent boast uttered by the barbarians had thrown him into &
\wrathful state of ambitious pertinacity. For when they were invited to come to terms of
capitulation, and it was held out to them as an inducement, that if they surrendered the
place, they would be allowed to withdraw in safety to their own abodes, they burst out
laughing, and in their barbaric tongue bade Alexander seek winged soldiers, to eapture the
mountain for him, since they had no apprehension of danger from other men.*! He then
issued a proclamation that the first man who mounted should have a reward of twelve
talents, the man who came next to him the second prize, and the third so on in proportion,
so that the last reward should be three hundred daries™ to the last prize-taker who reached
the top. This proclamation excited the valour of the Macedonians still more, though they
were even before very eager to commence the assault
2
CHAPTER XIX.
ALIXANDER CAPTURES THE ROCK AND MARRIES ROXANA,

AL the men who had gained practice in scaling rocks in sieges, banded themselves together
to the number of three hundred, and provided themselves with the small iron pegs with
Which their tens had been fastened tothe ground, with the intention of fixing them into the
snow, where it might be seen to be frozen hard, or into the ground, if it should anywhere
exhibit itself fre from snow. Tying strong ropes made of flax to these pegs, they advanced
in the night towards the most precipitous part of the rock, which was also most unguarded;
and fixing some ofthese pegs into the earth, where it made itself visible, and others into the
snow where it seemed least likely to break up, they hoisted themselves up the rock, some in
‘one place and some in another. Thirty of them perished in the aseent; and as they fell into
various parts of the snows, not even could their bodies be found for burial. The rest,
however, reached the top ofthe mountain at the approach of dawn; and taking possession of
it, they waved linen flags towards the camp of the Macedonians," as Alexander had
directed them to do. He now sent a herald with instructions to shout to the senttes of the
barbarians to make no further delay, but surrender at once: since “the winged men” had been
found, and the summits of the mountain were in their possession. At the same time the
herald pointed atthe soldiers upon the erestof the mountain. The barbarians, being alarmed
by the unexpectedness of the sight, and suspecting that the men who were occupying the


Page 95, Instance 0, Class: Text
all Asiatic women, with the single exception of the wife of Darius." They also say that no
sooner did Alexander see her than he fll in love with her, but though he was in love with
her, he refused to offer violence to her as a captive, and did not think it derogatory to his
digoity to marry her. This eonduct of Alexander I think worthy rather of praise than blame
Moreover, in gard to the wife of Darius, who was said to be the most beautiful woman in
Asia, he either did not entertain a passion for her, oF else he exercised control over
himself,” though he was young, and in the very meridian of success, when men usually act
‘with insolence and violence. On the contrary, he acted with modesty and spared her honour,
exercising a great amount of chastity, and atthe same time exhibiting avery proper desire to
‘obtain a good reputation.
CHAPTER XX.
MAGNANIMOUS TREATMENT OF THE FAMILY OF Dari.
In relation to this subject there isa story current, that soon after the battle which was fought
at Issus between Darius and Alexander, the eunuch who was guardian of Darius’s wife
escaped and came to him. When Darius saw this man, his first inquiry was, whether his
children, wife, and mother were alive? Ascertaining that they were not only alive, but were
called queens, and enjoyed the same personal service and attention which they had been
accustomed to have with Darius, he thereupon made a second inquiry, whether his wife was
still chaste? When he ascertained that she remained so, he asked again whether Alexander
had not offered any violence to her to gratify his lust? The eunuch took an oath and said: “O
king, thy wie is just as thou didst leave her; and Alexander is the best and most chaste of
men.” Upon this Darius stretched his hands towards heaven and prayed as follows:—"O
King Zeus,” to whom power has been assigned to regulate the affair of kings among men,
do thou now protect for me espevally the empire of the Persians and Medes, as indeed thou.
didst give itto me. But i am no longer king of Asia according to thy behest, at any rate do
thou hand over my power to no other man but Alexander.” Thus not even to enemies, 1
‘ween, are chaste actions a matter of unconeern. Oxyartes, hearing that his children were in
the power of Alexander, and that he was treating his daughter Roxana with respect, took
courage and came to him. He was held in honour atthe King’s court, as was natural after
such a piece of good fortune.
CHAPTER XXL.
Carrure oF THE ROCK OF CHORIENES.
Wutex Alexander had finished his operations among the Sogdianians, and was now in
possession of the rock, he advanced into the land of the Paraetacians, because many of the
barbarians were said 0 be holding another rock, a strongly fortified place in that country.
‘This was called the rock of Chorienes; and to it Chorienes himself and many other chiefs
hhad fled for refuge. The height of this rock was about twenty stades, and the circuit about
sixty. It was precipitous on al sides, and there was only one ascent to it, which was narrow
and not easy 0 mount, since it had been constructed in spite of the nature of the place. It
‘was therefore difficult to ascend even by men in single file and when no one barred the way.
“A deep ravine also enclosed” the rock all round, so that whoever intended to lead an army


Page 95, Instance 1, Class: Text
wives and children of many important men were there captured, including those of
‘Oxyartes. This chief had a daughter, a maiden of martiageable age, named Roxana," who
‘was asserted by the men who served in Alexander's army to have been the most beautiful of
all Asiatic women, with the single exception of the wife of Darius. They also say that no
sooner did Alexander see her than he fll in love with her, but though he was in love with
her, he refused to offer violence to her as a captive, and did not think it derogatory to his
digoity to marry her. This eonduct of Alexander I think worthy rather of praise than blame

Moreover, in gard to the wife of Darius, who was said to be the most beautiful woman in
Asia, he either did not entertain a passion for her, oF else he exercised control over
himself,” though he was young, and in the very meridian of success, when men usually act
‘with insolence and violence. On the contrary, he acted with modesty and spared her honour,
exercising a great amount of chastity, and atthe same time exhibiting avery proper desire to
‘obtain a good reputation.


Page 95, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHAPTER XX.
-MaGNaninous TREATMENT OF THE Fasity oF Danis

1s relation to this subject there isa story cutent, that soon after the battle which was fought
at Issus between Darius and Alexander, the eunuch who was guardian of Darius's wife 2
escaped and eame 10 him. When Darius saw this man, his fis inquiry was, whether his
children, wife, and mother were alive? Ascertaining that they were not only alive, but were
called queens, and enjoyed the same personal service and attention which they had been
accustomed to have with Darius, he thereupon made a second inguty, whether his wife was
sill chase? When he ascertained that she remained so, he asked again whether Alexander
hhad not offered any violence to er to gratify hs lst? The eunuch took an oath and said: “O
ing, thy wife i just as thou didst leave her; and Alexander isthe bes and most chaste of
men.” Upon this Darius stetched his hands towards heaven and prayed as follows: —"O
King Zeus,*” to whom power has been assigned to regulate the affairs of kings among men,
dio thou now protect for me especialy the empire of the Persians and Medes, as indeed thou
didst give it to me. But if Tam no longer king of Asia according to thy behest, at any rate do
thou hand over my power to no other man but Alexander” Thus not even to enemies, [
‘ween, are chaste ations a matter of uncoacern. Oxyares, hearing that is children were in
the power of Alexander, and that he was teating his daughter Roxana with respect, took
courage and came to him. He was held in honour atthe king's cout, as was natural after
such apiece of good fortune.”


Page 95, Instance 3, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXI.
Capture oF Tie Rock oF CHORIENES.
Wane Alexander had finished his operations among the Sogdianans, and was now in
possession of the rock, he advanced into the land ofthe Paractavians, because many of the
barbarians were said t be holding another rock, a strongly fortified place in that count
This was called the rock of Chorienes; and to it Chorienes himself and many other chiefs
hhad fled for refuge. The height ofthis rock was about Wwenty staes, and the circuit about
sixty. It was precipitous onal sides, and there was only ome ascent t it, which was narrow
and not easy 10 mount, since it had been constructed in spite of the nature of the place. It
‘vas therefore difficult to ascend even by men in single file and when no one barred the Way:
A deep ravine also enclosed™ the rock al round, so that whoever intended to lead an army’
up tH must long before make a causeway of earth over this avine in order that he might


Page 96, Instance 0, Class: Text
start from level ground, when he led his troops to the assault. Notwithstanding all this,
‘Alexander undertook the enterprise. To so great a piteh of audacity had he advanced through
his career of success, that he thought every place ought to be accessible to him, and to be
captured by him. He cut down the pines, which were very abundant and lofty al found the
mountain, and made ladders of them, so tht by means of them the soldiers might beable to
descend into the ravine”; for otherwise it was impossible for them to do so. During the
daytime he himself supevintended the work, keeping half of his army engaged init, and
luring the night his confidential body-guards, Perdiceas, Leonnatus, and Ptolemy, son of
Lagu, in tum with the other half ofthe amy, divided into thee pars, performed the duty
which had been assigned to each for the night. But they could complete no more than
‘twenty cubits in a day, and not quite so much in a night, though the whole army engaged in
the labour so difficult was the place to approach and so hard was the workin i. Descending
into the ravine, they fastened pegs into the sharpest and narrowest part of it, distant fom
‘each other as far as was consistent with strength to support the weight of what was placed
upon them. Upon these they placed hurdles made of willow and osiees, very much in the
form of abridge. Binding these together, they loaded earth above them, so that there might
‘bean approach to the rock forthe army on level ground. At fist the barbarians derided, as if
the attempt was altogether abortive: bur when the afows began 10 reach the tock, and they
vere unable to dive back the Macedonians, though they themselves were ona higher level,
‘because the former had constructed sereens to ward off the missiles, that they might carry
on thee labour under them without receiving injury, Chorines grew alarmed at what was
boeing done, and sent a herald to Alexander, beseeching him to send Oxyartes up to him.
‘Alexander accordingly sent Oxvartes, who on his arvival persuaded Chorienes to entrust
himself and the place to Alexander; for he told him that there was nothing which Alexander
and his army could not take by storm: and as he himself had entered into an alliance of
fidelity and friendship with him, be commended the king's honour and justice in high terms,
adducing other examples and above all hs own cae for the confirmation of his arguments
By these representations Chorienes was persuaded and came himself to Alexander,
accompanied by some of his relations and companions. When he arrived, the king gave him
4 courteous answer 10 his inquires, and retained him after pledging his fidelity and
friendship. But he bade him send to the rock some of those who came down with him to
‘order his men to surrender the place; and it was surrendered by those who had fled to it for
refuge. Alexander therefore took 500 of his shield-bearing guards and went up to get a view
Of the rock; and was s0 far from infieting any harsh teatment upon Chorienes tht he
entrusted that very place 10 him again, and made him governor of all that he had ruled
‘before It happened thatthe army suffered much hardship from the severity ofthe winter,
{great quantity of snow having fallen during the siege; while atthe same time the men were
reduced to gat straits from lack of provisions. But Chorienes said he would give the army
food for two months; and he gave the men in every tent com, wine, and salted meat out of
the stores in the rock. When he had given them this, he said he had not exhausted even the
tenth part of what had been laid up forthe siege. Hence Alexander held him in stil greater
hhonou inasmuch as he had surrendered the tock, not so much from compulsion as from his
‘own inclination,


Page 96, Instance 1, Class: Text
(CHAPTER XXIL
ALEXANDER REACHES THE Riv CABUL, AND RECEIVES THE HOMAGE OF TASILES
‘Arter performing this exploit, Alexander himself went to Bactra; but sent Craterus with
{600 of the cavalry Companions and his own brigade of infantry as well those of
Polysperchon, Attalus, and Aleetas, against Catanes and Austanes, who were the only rebels
still remaining in the land of the Paraetacenians.°* A sharp battle was fought with them, in. 2


Page 97, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘which Craterus was victorious; Catenes being Kiled tere wale fighting, and Avstance
being captured and brought to Alexander. Of the barbarians with them 120 horsemen and
about 1,500 foot soldiers were killed. When Craterus had done this, he also went to Bactra,
where the tragedy in reference to Callsthenes and the pages befell Alexander. As the spring
was now over, he took the army and advanced from Bactra towards India,” leaving
Amyntas in the land of the Bactrians with 3,500 horse, and 10,000 foot. He erossed the
‘Caucasus in ten days and arrived atthe city of Alexandtia, which had been founded inthe
land of the Parapamisadae when he made his first expedition to Bactra, He dismissed from
office the governor whom he had then placed over the ety, because be thought he was not
ruling well. He also settled in Alexandria others from the neighbouring tribes and the
soldiers who were now unfit for service in addition to the first setlers, and commanded
‘Nicanos, one of the Companions, to regulate the affairs of the city itself, Moreover he
appointed Tyriaspes viceroy of the land of the Parapamisadae and of the rest ofthe country
as far as the river Cophen..”” Arriving at the city of Nicaea, he offered sacrifice to Athena
and then advanced towards the Cophen, sending a herald forward to Taxiles”* and the other
chiefs on this side the river Indus, to bid them come and meet him as each might find it
convenient. Taxiles and the other chiefs accordingly did come to meet him, bringing the
iis which are reckoned of most value among the Indians. They said that they would also
present to him the elephants which they had with them, twenty-five in number. There he
divided his army, and sent Hephaestion and Perdiceas away into the land of Peucelaotis,””
towards the river Indus, with the brigades of Gorgias, Clitus. and Meleager, hal of the
Companion cavalry, and all the cavalry of the Grecian mercenaries. He” gave them
instructions either to capture the places on their toute by force, or to bring them over on
terms of capitulation; and when they reached the river Indus, 10 make the necessary
preparations for the passage of the army. With them Taxiles and the other chiefs also
marched. When they reached the river Indus they carried out all Alexander's orders. But
Astes, the ruler of the land of Peucelaotis, effected a revolt, which both ruined himself and
‘brought ruin also upon the city into which he had fled for efuge. For Hephaestion captured
itaftera siege of thirty days, and Astes himself was killed. Sangaeus, who had some time
before fled from Astes and deserted to Taxiles, was appointed to take charge ofthe city. This,
desertion was a pledge to Alexander of is fidelity.


Page 97, Instance 1, Class: Text
GHABIER AAM.
Barriss WIri Tite ASMASIANS.
ALEXANDER now took command of the shie-bearing guards, the Companion cavalry with
‘the exception of those who had been joined with Hephaestion’s division, the regiments of
What were called foo-Companions, the archers, the Agrianians and the horse-lancers, and
advanced with them into the land of the Aspasians, Guraeans and Assacenians." Marching
bby a mountainous and rough road along the river called Choes," which he erossed with
difficulty, he ordered the main body of his infantry to follow at leisure: while he himself
took all the cavalry, and 800 of the Macedonian infantry whom he mounted upon horses
With their infantry shields, and made a forced march, because he had received information
thatthe barbarians who inhabited that district had fled for safety ito the mountains which
extend through the land and into as many of their cities as were strong enough to resist
attack, Assaulting the first ofthese eties which was situated on his route, he routed, atthe
first attack without any delay, the men whom he found drawn up in front of the eity, and
shut them up in it, He was himself wounded by a dart which penetrated through the
breastplate into his shoulder; but the wound was only a slight one, for the breastplate
prevented the dart from penetrating right through his shoulder. Leonnatus and Ptolemy, son
‘of Lagus, were also wounded. Then he encamped near the city atthe place where the wall


Page 98, Instance 0, Class: Text
(OPERATIONS AGAINST THE ASPASIANS,
ALEXANDER now took command of the shield-bearing guards, the archers, the Agrianians,
the brigade of Coenus and Atalus, the royal body-guard of eavalry, about four regiments of
the other Companion cavalry, and half of the horse-archers, and advanced towards the river
Euaspla,"" where the chieftain of the Aspasians was. After a long journey he arrived at the
city on the second day. When the barbarians ascertained that he was approaching they set
fire to the city and fled to the mountains, But Alexander followed close upon the fugitives as
far as the mountains, and slaughtered many of them before they could manage to get away
into the places which were difficult of access. Ptolemy, son of Lagus, observing that the
leader himself ofthe Indians of that district was on a certain hill, and that he had some of his
shield-bearing guards round him, though he had with himself far fewer men, yet he still
continued to pursue him on horseback. But as the hill was diffieult for his horse to run up,
he left it there, handing it over to one of the shield-bearing guards to lead. He then followed
the Indian on foot, without any delay. When the latter observed Ptolemy approaching, he
turned round, and so did the shield-bearing guards with him, The Indian at close quarters
struck Prolemy on the chest through the breastplate with a long spear, but the breastplate
checked the violence of the blow. Then Ptolemy, smiting right through the Indian’s thigh,
‘overthrew him, and stripped him of his arms. When his men saw their leader lying dead,
they stood their ground no longer; but the men on the mountains, seeing their chieftain’s
ccompse being carried off by the enemy, were seized with indignation, and running down
‘engaged in a desperate conilict over him on the hill. For Alexander himself was now on the
hill withthe infantry who had dismounted from the horses. These, falling upon the Indians,
drove them away 10 the mountains after a hard struggle, and remained in possession of the
ccompse. Then crossing the mountains he descended to a cy called Arigaeum, and found that
this had been seton fire by the inhabitants, who had afterwatds fled. There Craterus with his
‘army reached him, after accomplishing all the king's orders; and because this city seemed to
bbe builtin a convenient place, he directed that general to fortify it well, and settle in it as
many of the neighbouring people as were willing to live there, together with any of the
soldiers who were unfit for service. He then advanced to the place where he heard that most
Of the barbarians of the district had fled for refuge; and coming to a certain mountain, he
‘encamped atthe foot of it. Meantime Ptolemy, son of Lagus, being sent out by Alexander on
a foraging expedition, and advancing a considerable distance with a few men to reconnoitre,
brought back word to the king that he had observed many more fires in the camp of the
barbarians than there were in Alexander's. Bur the later did not believe in the multitude of
the enemy's fires. Discovering, however, that the barbarians of the district had joined their
forees into one body, he left a part of his army there near the mountain, encamped as they


Page 98, Instance 1, Class: Text
seemed most easy to assault, At dawn on the following day the Macedonians easily forced
their way through the first wall, as it had not been strongly built The city had been
surrounded with a double wall. At the second wall the barbarians stood their ground for a
short time; but when the scaling ladders were now being fixed, and the defenders were
being wounded with darts from al sides, they no longer stayed; but rushed through the gates
‘out of the eity towards the mountains. Some of them were killed in the flight, and the 2
Macedonians, being enraged because they had Wounded Alexander, slew all whom they
took prisoners. Most of them, however, escaped info the mountains, because they were not
far from the ety. Having levelled this city withthe ground, he marched to another, named
‘Audaca, which he got possession of by capitulation. He left Craterus there with the other
‘commanders of the infantry to capture all the remaining cities which would not yield of
their own accord, and t0 set the affairs of the whole country in such order as he should find
most convenient under the circumstances,


Page 99, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXV.
Dore oF TH: ASPASIANS—THE ASSACENTANS AND GURAEANS ATTACKED,

Wires the enemy who were occupying the commanding heights perceived the Macedonians
approaching, they descended into the plain, being emboldened by their superiority in
‘number and despising the Macedonians, because they were seen to be few. A sharp contest
‘ensued; but Alexander won the victory with ease. Ptolemy's men did not range themselves
‘on the level ground, for the barbarians were oecupying a hill. Wherefore Ptolemy, forming
his battalions into column, led them to the point where the hill seemed most easly
assailable, not surrounding it entirely, but leaving room for the barbarians to fle if they
‘were inclined to do so. A sharp contest also ensued with these men, both from the difficult
nature of the ground, and because the Indians are not like the other barbarians of this,
distiet, but are far stronger than their neighbours. These men also were driven away fom 2
‘the mountain by the Macedonians. In the same way did Leonnatus with the third division of
‘the army: for his men also defeated those opposed to them, Ptolemy indeed says that all the
men were captured, to a number exceeding 40,000, and that 230,000 oxen were also taken,
of which Alexander picked out the finest, because they seemed to him to excel both in
‘beauty and size, wishing to send them into Macedonia to til the soil. Thence he marched
towards the land of the Assacenians: for he received news that these people had made
preparations to fight him, having 20,000 cavalry, more than 30,000 infantry, and 30
elephants. When Craterus had thoroughly fortified the ety, for the founding of which he had
‘been left behind, he brought the heavier armed men of his amy for Alexander as well as the
military engines, in case it might be necessary to lay siege to any place. Alexander then
marched against the Assacenians at the head of the Companion cavalry, the horse-archers,
the brigades of Coenus and Polysperchon, the Agrianians, the light-armed troops, and the
archers. Passing through the land of the Guraeans, he erossed the river Guraeus, which
tives its name to the land, with difficulty, both on account of its depth, and because its
‘current is swift, and the stones inthe river being round caused those who stepped upoa them
to stumble When the barbarians perceived Alexander approaching, they durst not take
‘ther stand for a battle in close array, but dispersed one by one to their various cities with the
determination of preserving these by resolute fighting

CHAPTER XXVL.

Since oF Massaca.
In the first place Alexander led his forces against Massaga,”" the largest of the cities in that


Page 99, Instance 1, Class: Text
were, and taking as many men as seemed sufficient, according to the reports he had
received, as soon as they could desery the fires near at hand, he divided his army into three
parts. Over one part he placed Leonnatus, the confidential body-guard, joining the brigades
of Attalus and Balacrus with his own; the second division he put under the lead of Ptolemy,
son of Lagus, including the third part of the royal shield-bearing guards, the brigades of
Philip and Philotas, «wo regiments of horse-archers, the Agrianians, and half of the cavalry
‘The third division he himself led towards the place where most of the barbarians were
Visible


Page 100, Instance 0, Class: Text
bbe, they might not be able easily to preserve themselves by fleeing for refuge into the city
close at hand. When therefore he saw the barbarians running out, he ordered the
Macedonians t turn round and retreat to certain bill distant something about seven stades
from the place where he had resolved to encamp. The enemy being emboldened, a if the
Macedonians had already given way, shed upon them with aun and with no kind of
‘order, But when the arrows began to reach them, Alexander at once wheeled round atthe
appointed signal, and led his phalanx against them with aun, His horse-lancer, Agranians,
and archers first ran forward and engaged with the barbarians, while he himself led the
phalanx in regular order. The Indians were alarmed at this unexpected manquvte, and as
Soon as the battle became a hand-to-hand confit, they gave way and fled into the ci
About 200 of them were killed, and the rest were shut up within the walls. Alexander then
Ted his phalanx up tothe wall, irom which he was soon aftr slightly wounded in the ankle
with an arow. On the nextday he brought up his military engines and easily battered down 2
4 piece ofthe wall but the Indians so gallantly kept back the Macedonians who were tying
to force an entrance where the breach had been made, that e recalled the army fr this dy.
But on the morrow the Macedonians themselves made a more vigorous assault, and a
wooden tower was drawn up to the walls, from which the archers shot atthe Indians, and
missiles were hurled from the military engines which repulsed them Wo a great distance. But
not even thus were they abe to force their way within the wall. On the third day he led the
‘Phalanx near again, and throwing abridge from a military engine over to the part of the wall
Where the breach lad been maul, by this he led up the shild-bearing guards, who had
captured Tyee for him in a similar way." But as many were urged on by their ardour, the
bridge received too great a weight, and was snapped asunder, so thatthe Macedonians fell
with i The barbarians, seeing what was taking place, raised a preat shout, and shot at them
fiom the wall with stones, arrows, and whatever else any one happened to have at hand, oF
whatever any one could lay hold of atthe time. Others issued forth by the small gates which
they had between the towers in the wall, and at elose quarters stuck the men who had been
thrown into confusion by the fl
CHAPTER XXVIL


Page 100, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXVIL
‘incr oF Massaca AND Ona.
ALEXANDER now sent Aleetas with his own brigade to recover the men who had been
severely wounded, and to recall 10 the camp those who were assailing the enemy. On the
fourth day he brought up another bridge against the wall in like manner upon another
military engine. The Indians, as long as the ruler of the place survived, defended themselves
gallantly; but when he was struck and killed with a missile hurled from an engine, and as
some of their number had fallen in the siege, which had gone on without any cessation,
While most of them were wounded and unfit for service, they sent a herald to Alexander. He
was glad 10 preserve the lives of brave men; so he came to terms with the Indian
mercenaries on this condition, that they should be admitted into the ranks with the rest of his
army and serve as his soldiers. They therefore came out of the ety with their arms, and
encamped by themselves upon a hill which was facing the camp of the Macedonians; but
they resolved to arise by night and run away to their own abodes, because they were
unwilling to take up arms against the other Indians. When Alexander received intelligence
‘of this, he placed the whole of his army round the hill in the night, and intercepting them in
‘the midst oftheir flight, cut them to pieces. He then took the eity by storm, denuded as it
was of defenders; and captured the mother and daughter of Assacenus.*” In the whole siege
five-and-twenty of Alexander's men were killed. Thenee he despatched Coenus to Bazira,”
‘entertaining an opinion that the inhabitants would surrender, when they heard of the capture


Page 101, Instance 0, Class: Text
mem, anc arove mem info ihe ery Wren me Wall SUF allairs at Mazira Were not favours
to Coenus, forthe inhabitants showed no sign of capitulating, tasting tothe strength ofthe
place, because not only was it situated on a lofty eminence, but it was also thoroughly
fortified all round. When Alexander learnt this, he started off to Bazira; but ascertaining that
some of the neighbouring barbarians were about to get into the city of Ora by stealth, being
despatched thither by Abisares"" for that very purpose, he fist marched to Ora. He ordered
‘Coenus to fortify a certain strong postion to serve asa bass of operations against the city of
Bazira, and then to come to him with the rest of his army, after leaving in that place a
sulicient garison to restrain the men in the ety from enjoying the free use of thei lan.
But when the men of Bazira saw Coens departing with the larger part of his army, they
despised the Macedonians, as not being able to contend with them, and sallied forth into the
plain, A sharply contested battle ensued, in which S00 of the barbarians fell, and over
seventy were taken prisoners. But the rest, fleeing for refuge into the ety"? were now more
securely shut off from the country by the men in the fot. The siege of Ora proved an easy
matter to Alexander, for he no sooner attacked the walls than at the frst assault he got
possession ofthe city, and captured the elephants which had been left there.

CHAPTER XXVIIL.
(CAPTURE OF BAZIRA—ADUANCE TO THE ROCK OF AORNUS,

Wire the men in Bazira heard this news, despairing of their own affairs, they abandoned 25
the city about the middle of the night, and fled to the rock as the other barbarians were
doing. For all the inhabitants deserted the cities and began to lee to the rock which isin
‘their land, and is called Aomnus"” For stupendous is this rockin this land, about which the
ccurent reports, that it was found impregnable even by Heracles, the son of Zeus. I cannot
affirm with confidence either way, whether the Theban, Tyrian, or Egyptian Heracles
penetrated into India or no; but Iam rather inclined to think that he did not penetrate so far;
for men are wont to magnify the difficulty of difficult enterprises to such a degree as to
assert that they would have been impracticable even to Heracles. Therefore, Iam inclined to
‘think, that in regard to this rock the name of Heracles was mentioned simply to add to the
marvellousness of the tale. The circuit ofthe rock is said to be about 200 stades (i.e. about
twenty-three miles), and its height where itis lowest, eleven stades (i.e, about a mile and a
quarter), There was only one ascent, which was artificial and difficult, on the sumamit ofthe
rock there was abundance of pure water a spring issuing from the ground, from whieh the
water flowed: and there was also timber, and sufficient good arable land for 1,000 men to
UilL° When Alexander heard this, he was seized with a vehement desire to capture this,
mountain also, especially on account of the legend which was current about Heracles. He 25
then made Ora and Massaga fortresses to Keep the land in subjection, and fortified the city
‘of Bazira. Hephaestion and Perdiceas also fortified for him another city, named Orobatis,
and leaving a garrison in it marched towards the river Indus. When they reached that river
they at once began to carry out Alexander’ instructions in regard to bridging it. Alexander
then appointed Nicanor, one of the Companions, viceroy of the land on this side the river
Indus: and inthe first place leading his army towards that river, he brought over on terms of
capitulation the eity of Peucelaotis, which was situated not fa from it In this eity he placed
‘2 garrison of Macedonians, under the command of Philip, and then reduced to subjection
some other small towns situated near the same river, being aveompanied by Cophaeus and
Assagetes, the chieftains of the land. Arriving at the city of Embolima,"® which was
‘situated near the rock Aomnus, be left Craterus there with a part of the army, to eather as


Page 101, Instance 1, Class: Text
of Massaga. He also despatched Attalus, Alcetas, and Demetrius the cavalry officer to
another city, named Ora, wit insrutions to blockade it until be himself arsived. The men
‘ofthis city made a sortie against the forces of Aleeas; but the Macedonians easily routed
them, and drove them into the city within the wall, But alaies at Bazira were not favourable
to Coenus, forthe inhabitants showed no sign of capitulating, rusting tothe strength ofthe
place, because not only was it situated on a lofty eminence, but it was also thoroughly
fortified al round. When Alexander learnt this, he started off to Bazi; but ascertaining that
some ofthe neighbouring barbarians were about to get into the city of Ora by stealth, being
despatched thither by Abisaes" for that very purpose he fist marched to Ora. He ordered
‘Coznus to fortify a certain stong position to serve asa bass of operations against he city of
Bazira, and then to come to him with the rest of his amy, after leaving in that place a
sulficicnt garrison to restrain the men inthe city from enjoying the fee use of their land
But when the men of Bazira saw Coenus departing withthe larger part of bis army, they
despised the Macedonians, a not being ble to contend with them, and sallied forth ito the
plain, A sharply contested battle ensued, in which 500 of the barbarian fel, and over
seventy were taken prisoners. But the ret, leeing for refuge into the city" were now more
securely shut off from the country by the men in the fort. The siege of Ora proved an easy
matter to Alexander, for he no sooner attacked the walls than at the first assault he got
possession ofthe city, and captured the elephants which had been lft there


Page 102, Instance 0, Class: Text
rock, and encamped again.

CHAPTER XXIX.

Sur oF Aonwus.

‘Ar this juncture some of the natives came to him, and surrendering themselves, offered to
lead him 1 the pat of the rock where it could be most easily assailed, and fiom which it
would be easy for him to capture the place. With these he sent Ptolemy, son of Lagus, the
confidential body-guard, in command of the Agranians and the other light-armed twoops,
together with picked men fom the shield-bearing guards. He gave ths oficer instructions,
4s soon as e had got possession of the plac, to Occupy it witha song guard, and signal
hh that it as held. Prolemy proceeded along a road which was rough and difficult to pass,
and occupied the position without the knowledge ofthe barbarians. After strengthening his
Position With a stockade and a ditch all round, he raised a beacon from the mountain,
Whence it was likely to be seen by Alexander: The flame was at once seen, and on the
following day the king led his army forwatd; but asthe barbarians disputed his advance, he
could do nothing further on account of the difficult nature of the ground. When the
barbarians perceived that Alexander could not make an assault, they tamed round and
autacked Ptolemy, and a sharp batle ensued between them and the Macedonians, the Indians
making pret efforts to demolish the stockade, and Prolemy to preserve his position. But the
barbarians, geting the worst of it in the skirmish, withdrew as the night carne on. Alexander
now selected from the Indian deserters a man who was not only devoted to him but
acquainted withthe locality.” and sent him by aight to Ptolemy, carrying a lte, in which
it was writen that as soon as the king attacked the rock, Prolemy was to come down the
mountain upon the barbarians, and not be contented with holding his positon in guard; so
that the Indians, being assailed feom both sides at once, might be in perplexity what course
to pursue. Accordinal, starting from his eamp at daybreak, he led hs army up the path by
which Ptolemy’ bad ascended by stealth, entertaining the opinion that if he could force his
‘vay in this direction and join his forces with those of Polemy, the work would no longer be
difficult for im; and so it turned out. For until midday a smart batle was kept up between
the Indians and the Macedonians, the latter striving to force a way of approach, and the
former hurling missiles at them as they ascended. But as the Macedonians did not relax their
efforts, advancing one after another, and those who were in advance rested ill their
comrades came up, afler great exertions they gained possession of the pass early in the
aflemoon, and formed a junction with Ptolemy’ frees. As the whole amy was now united,
‘Alexander led it thence against the rock itself. Bu the approach to it was still impracticable.
Such then was the result of this day's labours. At the approach of the dawn he issued an
‘order that each soldier individually should cut 100 stakes; and when this had been done be
hncaped up great mound against the rock, beginning from the top ofthe hill where they had
‘encamped. From this mound he thought the rows as well asthe missiles launched from the
military engines would be able t reach the defenders of the rock. Every one in the army
assisted him in this work of raising the mound; while he himself superintended it, as an
‘observer, aot only commending the man who completed his task with zeal and alarty, but
‘also chastising him who was dilatory in the pressing emergency.


Page 102, Instance 1, Class: Text
much corn as possible into the city, as well as all the other things requisite for a long stay, so
‘that making this their base of operations, the Macedonians might be able by a long siege to
wear out the men who were holding the rock, supposing it were not captured at the first
assault. He then took the bowmen, the Agrianians, and the brigade of Coenus, and selecting
the lightest as well as the best-armed men from the rest of the phalanx, with 200 of the
‘Companion cavalry and 100 horse-bowmen, he advanced to the rock. This day he encamped
Where it appeared to him convenient; but on the morrow he approached a little nearer to the
rock, and encamped again


Page 103, Instance 0, Class: Text
Carrure oF AoRNUS—ARRIVAL AT THE INDUS.

(Ox the first day his army constructed the mound the length of a stade; and on the following
day the slingers shooting at the Indians from the part already finished, assisted by the
missiles which were hurled from the military engines, repulsed the sallies which they made
against the men who were constructing the mound, He went on with the work for thee days
Without intermission, and on the fourth day a few of the Macedonians forcing their way
‘occupied a small eminence which was on a level with the rock. Without taking any rest,
‘Alexander went on with the mound, being desious of connecting his artificial rampart with
the eminence which the few men were now occupying for him. But then the Indians, being
alarmed at the indescribable audacity of the Macedonians, who had forced their way to the
eminence, and seeing that the mound was already united with it, desisted from attempting
any longer to resist. They sent their herald to Alexander, saying that they were willing 0
surrender the rock, if he would grant them a truce. But they had formed the design of
wasting the day by continually delaying the ratification of the truce, and of scattering
themselves in the night with the view of escaping one by one to their own abodes. When
‘Alexander discovered this plan of theits, he allowed them time to commence their retreat,
land to remove the guard which was placed all round the place. He remained quiet until they
‘began their etreat; then taking 700 of the body-guards and shield-bearing infantry, he was
the first to scale the rock at the part of it abandoned by the enemy; and the Macedonians
ascended after him, one in one place another in another, drawing each other up. These men
at the concerted signal turned themselves upon the retreating barbarians, and killed many of
them in their flight. Others reteating with panic terror perished by leaping down the
precipices; and thus the rock which had been inexpugnable to Heracles was occupied by
‘Alexander. He offered sacrifice upon it, and arranged a fort, committing the superintendence
‘of the garrison to Sisicottus, who long before had deserted from the Indians to Bessus in
Bactra, and after Alexander had acquired possession of the country of Baca, entered his
army and appeared to be eminently trustworthy.

He now set out from the rock and invaded the land of the Assacenians; for he was
informed that the brother of Assacenus, with his elephants and many of the neighbouring
barbarians had fled into the mountains in this district. When he artived at the city of
Dyrta,"* he found none of the inhabitants ether in it or in the land adjacent. On the
following day he sent out Nearchus and Antiochus, the colonels of the shield-bearing
‘guards, giving the former the command of the Agvianians and the light-armed troops,” and
the latter the command of his own regiments and two others besides. They were despatched
both to reconnoitre the locality and to ty if they could capture some of the barbarians
anywhere in order to get information about the general afais of the country: and he was
especially anxious to learn news of the elephants. He now directed his march towards the
river Indus, the army going in advance to make a road for him, as otherwise this district
would have been impassable, Here he captured a few of the barbarians, from whom he
learnt that the Indians ofthat land had fled for safety to Abisares, but that they had left their
elephants there to pasture near the river Indus. He ordered these men to show him the way
to the elephants. Many of the Indians are elephant-hunters, and these Alexander kept in
attendance upon him in high honour, going out to hunt the elephants in company with ther,
‘Two of these animals perished in the chase, by leaping down a precipice, but the rest were
caught and being ridden by drivers were marshalled with the army. He also as he was
marching along the river lighted upon a wood the timber of which was suitable for building
ships; this was eut down by the army, and ships were built for him, which were brought
‘down the river Indus to the bridge, which had long since been constructed by Hephaestion


Page 104, Instance 0, Class: Text
BOOK V. °
CHAPTER |
ALExanpeR at N¥SA.

In this country, lying between the rivers Cophen and Indus, which was traversed by
‘Alexander, the city of Nysa® i said tobe situated. The report is, that its foundation was the
‘work of Dionysus, who built it after he had subjugated the Indians. But itis impossible to
determine who this Dionysus" was, and at what time, or from what quarter he led an army
‘against the Indians. For Tam unable to devide whether the Theban Dionysus, starting from
‘Thebes oF from the Lydian Tmolus' came into India at the head of an army, and after
traversing the territories of so many warlike nations, unknown to the Greeks of that time,
forcibly subjugated none of them except that of the Indians. But I do not think we ought to
make a minute examination of the legends which were promulgated in ancient times about
the divinity; for things which are not eredible to the man who examines them according to
the rule of probability, do not appear to be wholly incredible, if one adds the divine agency 2+
to the story. When Alexander came to Nysa the citizens sent out to him their president,
‘whose name was Acuphis, accompanied by thirty of their most distinguished men as
envoys, 10 entreat Alexander to leave thei city free for the sake of the god. The envoys,
centered Alexander's tent and found him seated in his armour still eovered with dust from the
journey, with his helmet on his head, and holding his spear in his hand. When they beheld
the sight they were struck with astonishment, and falling to the earth remained silent along
time. But when Alexander caused them to rise, and bade them be of good courage, then at
length Acuphis began thus to speak: “The Nysaeans beseech thee, O king, out of respect for
Dionysus, to allow them to remain free and independent for when Dionysus had subjugated
‘the nation of the Indians, and was returning tothe Grecian sea, he founded this city from the
soldiers who had become unfit for miliary service, and were under his inspiration as
Bacchanals, so tat it might be a monument both of his wandering and of hs vietory, to men
of afer times; just as thou also hast founded Alexandria near mount Caucasus, and another
‘Alexandria in the country of the Egyptians. Many other cities thou hast already founded,
land others thou wilt found hereafer, in the course of time, inasmuch as thou hast achieved
more exploits than Dionysus. The god indeed called the city Nysa, and the land Nysaea ater
his nurse Nysa. The mountain also which is near the city he named Meros (i. thigh),
because, according to the legend, he grew in the thigh of Zeus. From that time we inhabit
[Nysa, a five eity, and we ourselves are independent, conducting our government with
constitutional order. And let this be to thee a proof that our eity owes its foundation to
Dionysus; for ivy, which does not grow in the rest of the country of India, grows among us.”

CHAPTER IL

ALExanpeR at N¥SA.

‘AL this was very pleasant to Alexander to heat; for he wished thatthe legend about the
‘wandering of Dionysus should be believed, as well as that Nysa owed its foundation to that
deity since he had himself reached the place where Dionysus came, and had even advanced
beyond the limits of the latter's march. He also thought that the Macedonians would not
decline still to share his labours if he advanced further, from a desire to surpass the


Page 105, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘them because the government was in the hands of the aristocracy. He required them to send
'300 of their horsemen to aecompany him, and to select and send 100 of the aristocrats who
presided over the government of the State, who also were 300 in number. He ordered
‘Acuphis to make the selection, and appointed him governor of the land of Nysaea. When
‘Acuphis heard this, he is said to have smiled atthe speech; whereupon Alexander asked him
‘why he laughed. Acuphis replied:—“How, O king, coulda single eity deprived of 100 ofits
‘good men be still well governed? But if thou carest for the welfare of the Nysaeans, lead
‘with thee the 300 horsemen, and still more than that number if thou wishest: But instead of
the hundred of the best men whom thou orderest me to select lead with thee double the
‘number of the others who are bad, so that when thou comest here again the city may
appear in the same good order in which it now is” By these remarks he persuaded
‘Alexander; for he thought he was speaking with prudence. So he ordered them to send the 2+
horsemen to accompany’ him, but no longer demanded the hundred select men, nor indeed
‘others in their stead. But he commanded Acuphis to send his own son and his daughter's son
to accompany him, He was now seized with a strong desire of seeing the place where the
‘Nysaeans boasted to have certain memorials of Dionysus. So he went to Mount Merus with
‘the Companion cavalry and the foot guard, and saw the mountain, which was quite eovered
‘with ivy and laurel and groves thickly shaded with all sorts of timber, and on it were chases,
of all kinds of wid animals.°° The Macedonians were delighted at seeing the ivy, as they
hhad not seen any for a long time; for in the and of the Indians there was no ivy, even where
they had vines. They eagerly made garlands of it, and erowned themselves with them, as
they were, singing hymns in honour of Dionysus, and invoking the deity by his various
names" Alexander there offered sacrifice to Dionysus, and feasted in company with his
companions°* Some authors have also stated, but Ido not know if any one will believe it,
that many of the distinguished Macedonians in attendance upon him, having crowned
themselves with ivy, while they were engaged in the invocation of the deity, were seized
‘with the inspiration of Dionysus, uttered cries of Evoi in honour of the god, and acted as
Baechanals.”
CHAPTER IIL
INCREDULITY oF ERaTosTHENES.— PASSAGE OF THE INDUS.
ANY one who receives these stories may believe or disbelieve them as he pleases. But I do


Page 105, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘Mat many Of Ne distinguished Maceconians i alfendance upon fim, Aaving crownee
themselves with ivy, while they were engaged in the invocation of the deity, were seized
‘with the inspiration of Dionysus, uttered cries of Evoi in honour of the god, and acted as
Baechanals.”

CHAPTER IIL
INCREDULITY oF ERaTosTHENES.— PASSAGE OF THE INDUS.

ANY one who receives these stories may believe or disbelieve them as he pleases. But I do
not altogether agree with Eratosthenes the Cyrenaean”’ who says that everything which
‘was attributed to the divine agency by the Macedonians was really said to gratify Alexander
by their excessive eulogy. For he says that the Macedonians, seeing a cavern inthe land of
‘the Parapamisadians,' and hearing a certain legend which was current among the natives,
‘or themselves forming a conjecture, spread the report that this forsooth was the eave where
Prometheus had been bound, that an eagle frequented it to feast on his inward pars, that
‘when Heracles arrived there he killed the eagle and set Prometheus free from his bonds. He
also says that by their account the Macedonians transferred Mount Caucasus from the
Euxine Sea to the easter parts of the eath, and the land of the Parapamnisadians to that of
the Indians" calling what was really Mount Parapamisus by the name of Caucasus, in
‘order to enhance Alexander's glory, seeing that he forsooth had gone over the Caueasus. He
adds, that when they saw in India itself some oxen marked with the brand of a club, they
concluded from this that Heracles had penetrated into India. Eratosthenes also disbelieves
the similar tale of the wandering of Dionysus. Let me leave the stories about these matters
undecided as far as ! am concemed.

When Alexander arrived at the river Indus, he found a bridge made over it by
Hephaestion, and two thirty-onred galleys, besides many smaller craft. He moreover 27


Page 106, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER IV.

Dicrssion anour INpis
‘Tur following are statements about the river Indus which are quite unquestionable, and
therefore let me record them. The Indus isthe largest of all the rivers in Asia and Europe,
except the Ganges,” which is also an Indian river. It takes its rise on this side mount
Parapamisus, oF Caucasus, and discharges its water into the Great Sea whieh lies near India
in the direction of the south wind. It has two mouths, both of which outlets are full of
shallow pools like the five outlets of the Ister (or Danube) I forms a Delta in the land of
the Indians resembling that of Egypt; and tis is called Pattala in the Indian language. The
Hydaspes, Acesines, Hydraotes, and Hyphasis are also Indian rivers, and far exceed the
other rivers of Asia in size; but they are not only smaller but much smaller than the Indus,
just as that river itself is smaller than the Ganges. Indeed Ctesias™' says (if any one thinks
his evidence to be depended upon), that where the Indus is narrowest, its banks are forty
stades apart; where itis broadest, 100 stades; and most of itis the mean between these
breadths."° This river Indus Alexander crossed at daybreak with his army into the country
of the Indians; conceming whom, in this history I have described neither what laws they
‘enjoy; nor what strange animals their land produces, nor how many and what sort of fish and
‘water-monsters are produced by the Indus, Hydaspes, Ganges, ofthe other rivers of India,
[Nor have I described the ants which dig up the gold for them,“ nor the guardian griffins,
nor any of the other tales that have been composed rather to amuse than to be received as
the relation of facts; since the falsity of the strange stories which have been fabricated about
India cannot be exposed by any one.“ However, Alexander and those who served in his
army exposed the falsity of most ofthese tales; but there were even some of these very men
‘who fabricated other stories. They proved thatthe Indians whom Alexander visited with his
army, and he visited many tribes of them, were destitute of gold; and also that they were by
‘no means luxurious in their mode of living. Moreover, they discovered that they were tall in
stature, in fact as tall as any men throughout Asia, most of them being five cubits in height,
‘or a litle less. They were blacker than the rest of men, except the Ethiopians“; and in war
they were far the bravest ofall the raves inhabiting Asia at that time. For I cannot with any
justice compare the race of the ancient Persians with those of India, though at the head of
the former Cyrus, son of Cambyses, set out and deprived the Medes of the empire of Asia,
and subdued many other races partly by force and partly by voluntary surrender on theit
‘own part. For at that time the Persians were a poor people and inhabitants of a rugged land,
hhaving laws and customs very similar to the Laconian discipline’ Nor am 1 able with
certainty to conjecture whether the defeat sustained by the Persians in the Seythian land was
‘due tothe difficult nature of the country invaded or to some other error on the part of Cyrus,
‘or whether the Persians were really inferior in wake matters to the Seythians of that
district.


Page 106, Instance 1, Class: Text
found that 200 talents of silver.“ 3,000 oxen, above 10,000 sheep for sacrificial victims,
and thirty elephants had arrived as gifts from Taxiles the Indian; 700 Indian horsemen also
arrived from Taxiles as a reinforcement, and that prince sent word that he would surrender
to him the city of Taxila” the largest town between the rivers Indus and Hydaspes.°
‘Alexander there offered sacrifice tothe gods to whom he was inthe habit of sacrificing, and
celebrated a gymnastic and horse contest near the river. The sacrifices were favourable to
his crossing,


Page 107, Instance 0, Class: Text
Bur of the Indians I shall treat in a distinct work,"'’ giving the most credible accounts
Which were compiled by those who accompanied Alexander in his expedition, as well as by
‘Nearchus,* who sailed right round the Great Sea whieh is near India, Then I shall add what
hhas been compiled by Megasthenes™” and Eratosthenes, two men of distinguished authority.
T shall describe the customs peculiar 0 the Indians and the strange animals which are
produced in the country, as well as the voyage itself in the external sea. But now let me
describe so much only as appears 10 me sufficient to explain Alexander's achievements
Mount Taurus divides Asia, beginning from Mycale, the mountain which lies opposite the
island of Samos; thea, cutting through the country of the Pamphylians and Cilicians, it
extends into Armenia. From this country it stretches into Media and through the land ofthe
Parthians and Chorasmians. In Bacria it unites with mount Parapamisus, which the
Macedonians who served in Alexander's army called Caucasus, in order, as itis said, to
enhance their king's glory; asserting that he went even beyond the Caucasus with his
Victorious arms. Perhaps it is a fact that this mountain range is a continuation of the other
‘Caucasus in Seythia, as the Taurus? is of the same. For this reason I have on a previous
‘occasion called this range Caucasus, and by the same name I shall continue to call it inthe
future. This Caucasus extends as far as the Great Sea which les inthe direction of India and
‘the East Of the rivers in Asia worth consideration which take theie rise from the Taurus and
‘Caucasus, some have their course turned towards the north, discharging themselves either
into the lake Macotis or into the sea called Hyreanian, which in reality is a gulf of the
Great Sea“? Others flow towards the south, namely, the Euphrates, Tigres, Indus,
Hydaspes, Acesines, Hydraotes, Hyphasis, and al those that lie between these and the river
Ganges. All these either discharge their water into the sea, or disappear by pouring
‘themselves out into marshes, asthe river Euphrates" does
CHAPTER VI.
GGexeRat DescRIPTION OF INDIA

Wuorver arranges the postion of Asia in such a way that it is divided by the Taurus and the
‘Caucasus from the west wind to the east wind, will find that these two very large divisions
are made by the Taurus itself, one of which i inclined towards the south and the south wind,
and the other towards the north and the north wind. Southern Asia again may be divided into
four pars, of which Fratosthenes and Megasthenes make India the largest. The latter author 2
lived with Sibyrtius,* the viceroy of Arachosia, and says that he frequently visited
Sandracotus, king of the Indians." These authors say thatthe smallest of the four parts is
that which is bounded by the river Euphrates and extends to our inland sea. The other two
lying between the rivers Euphrates and Indus are scarcely worthy to be compared with
India, if they were joined together. They say that India is bounded towards the east and the
cast wind as far as the south by the Great Sea, towards the north by mount Caucasus, as far
8 ils junction with the Taurus; and that the river Indus cuts it off towards the west and the
north-west wind, as far as the Great Sea. The greater part of it isa plain, which, as they
conjecture, has been formed by the alluvial deposits of the rivers: just as the plains in the
rest of the earth lying near the sea are for the most part due to the alluvial action of the
rivers taken singly. Consequently, the names by which the countries are called were attached
in ancient times to the rivers. For instance, a certain plain was called after the Hermus,
Which rises in the country of Asia from the mountain of Mother Dindymene, and after
flowing past the Acolian city of Smyma discharges its water into the sea. Another Lydian
plain is named after the Caster, a Lydian river; another from the Caicus in Mysia; and the


Page 107, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHAPTER VI.
Geverat Descrirsi0s oF INDIA
Wooten arranges the position of Asia in such a way that itis divided by the Taurus and the
‘Caucasus from the west wind tothe east wind, will find that these two very large divisions
are made by the Taurus itself, one of whichis inclined towards the south and the south wind,
land the other towards the noth andthe north wind. Southern Asia again may be divided into
four pats, of which Fratosthenes and Megasthenes make India the largest The latter author 2
lived with Sibyrtius,"* the viceroy of Arachosia, and says that he frequently visited
Sandracotus, king ofthe Indians These authors say that the smallest of the four parts is
that which i bounded by the river Euphrates and extends to our inland sea, The other two
lying between the rivers Euphrates and Indus are scarcely worthy to be compared with
India, i they were joined together. They say tht India is bounded towards the east and the
cast Wind as far asthe south by the Great Sea, towards the north by mount Caucasus, as far
48 its junction with the Taurus; and thatthe siver Indus cuts it off towards the west andthe
north-west wind, as fat asthe Great Sea. The greater part of itis a plain, which, as they
conjecture, has been formed by the alluvial deposits of the rivers: just asthe plains in the
rest of the earth Iying near the sea are for the most part due tothe alluvial action of the
rivers taken singly: Consequently, the names by which the countries are called Were attached
in ancient times to the river. For instance, a certain plain was called after the Hermus,
Which rises in the country of Asia from the mountain of Mother Dindymene."* and after
flowing past the Acolian city of Smyrna discharges its water into the sea. Another Lydian
plain is named afer the Caster, a Lydian river, another from the Caicus in Mysi: and the
Carian plain, extending as far as the Tonian city of Miletus, is named from the Maeandet.


Page 108, Instance 0, Class: Text
49 by another person, and not by Hecatneus) in ike manner call Egypt a gift of the river’;
and Herodotus has shown by no uncertain proofs that such isthe ease"; so that even the
country itself perhaps received its name from the river. For thatthe river which both the
Egyptians and men outside Egypt now name the Nile, was in ancient times called Aegyptus,
Homer is sufficient to prove; since he says that Menelais stationed his ships at the outlet of
the river Aegyptus.“ If therefore single rivers by themselves, and those not large ones, ate
sulicient to form an extensive tract of country, while flowing forward into the sea, since
they carry down slime and mud from the higher districts whence they derive their sources,
surely its unbecoming to exhibit incredulity about India, how it has come to pass that most
of itis a plain, which has been formed by the alluvial deposits of its rivers. For if the
Heermus, the Caster, the Caicus, the Maeander, and all the other" rivers of Asia which
discharge their waters into the midland sea were all put together, they would not be worthy
‘of comparison for volume of water with one of the Indian rivers. Not only do T mean the
Ganges, which isthe largest, and with which neither the water ofthe Egyptian Nile nor the
Ister lowing through Europe is worthy to compare; but if all those rivers were mingled
together they would not even then become equal tothe river Indus, which isa large river as
soon as it issues from its springs, and after receiving fifteen rivers, all larger than those in
the province of Asia, discharges its water into the sea, retaining its own name and absorbing 27”
those of its tributaries. Let these remarks which I have made about India suffice for the
present, and let the ret be reserved for my “Description of India.”

CHAPTER VIL
Metin oF Bricinc Rivers
How Alexander constructed his bridge over the river Indus, is explained neither by
Aristobulus nor Piolemy, authors whom I usualy follow; nor am I able to form a decided
‘opinion whether the passage was bridged with boats, as the Hellespont was by Xerxes and
‘the Bosporus and the Ister were by Darius” or whether he made a continuous bridge over
the river. To me it seems probable that the bridge was made of boats; for the depth of the
‘water would not have admitted of the construction of a regular bridge, nor could so
{enormous a work have been completed in so short a time. Ifthe passage was bridged with
boats I cannot decide whether the vessels being fastened together with ropes and moored in
2 row were sufficient to form the bridge, as Herodotus the Halicamassian says. the
Hellespont was bridged, or whether the work was effected in the way in which the bridge
upon the Ister and that upon the Celtic Rhine" are made by the Romans, and in the way in
‘which they bridged the Euphrates and Tigres, as often as necessity compelled them. 278
However, as I know myself, the Romans find the quickest way of making a bridge to be
‘with vessels; and this method I shall on the present occasion explain, because itis worth
describing. At a pre-concerted signal they let the vessels loose down the stream, not with
their prows forward, but as if backing water As might naturally be expected, the stream
carries them down, but a skiff furnished with oars holds them back, until it settles them in
the place assigned to them. Then pyramidal wicker-baskets made of willow, full of unhewn
stones, are let down into the water from the prow of each vessel, in order to hold it up
against the force of the stream. As soon as any one of these vessels as been held fast,
another is inthe same way moored with its prow against the stream, distant from the first as
far as is consistent with their supporting what is put upon them. On both of them are placed
pieces of timber with sharp ends projecting out, on which eross-planks are placed to bind
‘them together; and so proceeds the work through all the vessels which are required to bridge
the river. At each end of this bridge firmly fixed canewavs are thrown forward” o that the


Page 108, Instance 2, Class: Text
Both Herodotus and Hecataeus**’ the historians (unless the work about the Egyptian country | >)
is by another person, and not by Heeataeus) in like manner eall Egypt a gift ofthe river;
and Herodotus has shown by no uncertain proofs that such isthe ease"; so that even the
country itself perhaps received its name from the river. For thatthe river which both the
Egyptians and men outside Egypt now name the Nile, was in ancient times called Aegyptus,
Homer is sufficient to prove; since he says that Menelais stationed his ships at the outlet of
the river Aegyptus.“ If therefore single rivers by themselves, and those not large ones, ate
sulicient to form an extensive tract of country, while flowing forward into the sea, since
they carry down slime and mud from the higher districts whence they derive their sources,
surely its unbecoming to exhibit incredulity about India, how it has come to pass that most
of itis a plain, which has been formed by the alluvial deposits of its rivers. For if the
Heermus, the Caster, the Caicus, the Maeander, and all the other" rivers of Asia which
discharge their waters into the midland sea were all put together, they would not be worthy
‘of comparison for volume of water with one of the Indian rivers. Not only do T mean the
Ganges, which isthe largest, and with which neither the water ofthe Egyptian Nile nor the
Ister lowing through Europe is worthy to compare; but if all those rivers were mingled
together they would not even then become equal tothe river Indus, which isa large river as
soon as it issues from its springs, and after receiving fifteen rivers, all larger than those in
the province of Asia, discharges its water into the sea, retaining its own name and absorbing
those of its tributaries. Let these remarks which I have made about India suffice for the
present, and let the ret be reserved for my “Description of India.”


Page 109, Instance 0, Class: Text
eee nn nce naan eac ee OEE ELE IOS
‘heard nor impede the rapidity ofthe work.“
CHAPTER VIIL
Mancn rroa tur INDUS To THE HyDASPEs.
‘Tins has been the method of constructing bridges, practised by the Romans from olden
times; but how Alexander lad a bridge over the river Indus I cannot say, because those who
served in his army have said nothing about it. But I should think that the bridge was made as
neat as possible as Ihave described, o if it were effected by some other contrivance so lt it
bbe. When Alexander had crossed to the other side of the river Indus, he again offered
sacrifice there, according to his custom Then starting fom the Indus, he arrived at
‘Taxa, a large and prosperous city, infact the largest of those situated between the rivers
Indus and Hydaspes. He was received in a friendly manner by Taxiles, the governor of the
city, and by the Indians of that place; and he added to their territory as much ofthe adjacent
country as they asked for. Thither also came to him envoys from Abisares, king of the
mountaineer Indians, the embassy including the brother of Abisares as well as the other
most notable men. Other envoys also came from Doxareus, the chiet of the province,
bringing gifis with them. Here again at Taxila Alexander offered the saerifices which were
customary for him t0 offer, and celebrated a gymnastic and equestrian contest. Having
appointed Philip, son of Machatas viceroy ofthe Indians of that distret, he left a garrison in
‘Tania, as well asthe soldiers who were invalided by sickness, and then marched towards
the river Hydaspes. For he was informed that Porus,” with the whole of his army was on 2
the other side of that river, having determined either to prevent him from making the
passage, oF to attack him while erossing. When Alexander ascertained thi, he sent Coenus,
son of Polemocrates, back tothe river Indus, with instructions to cut in pieces all the vessels
‘which he had prepared for the passage ofthat river, and to bring them tothe river Hydaspes.
‘Coenus cut the vessels in pieces and conveyed them thither, the smaller ones being eut into
‘two parts, and the thitty-oared galleys into three. The sections were conveyed upon
‘waggons, as far as the bank of the Hydaspes: and there the vessels were fixed together
‘again, and seen asa fleet upon that river. Alexander took the forces which he had when he
arrived at Taxila, and the 5,000 Indians under the command of Taxiles and the chiefs of that
distiet, and marched towards the same river
CHAPTER IX.
ous onsrRUCTS ALEXANDER'S PASSAGE.

‘AuexanpeR encamped on the bank of the Hyaspes, and Porus was seen with al his army’
and his large troop of elephants lining the opposite bank”! He remained to guard the
passage at the place where he saw Alexander had encamped; and sent guards to all the other
parts of the river which were easily fordable, placing olficers over each detachment, being


Page 109, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER IX.
PORUS ORSTRUCTS ALEXANDER'S PASSAGE.
‘Atexanpe encamped on the bank of the Hydaspes, and Porus was seen with all his army
land his large woop of elephants lining the opposite bank.” He remained to guard the
passage at the place where he saw Alexander had encamped; and sent guards to all the other
parts of the river which were easily fordable, placing officers over each detachment, being
resolved to obstruct the passage of the Macedonians. When Alexander saw this, he thought
it advisable t0 move his army in various directions, o distract the attention of Porus, and
render him uncertain what to do, Dividing his army into many parts, he led some of his
‘troops now in one direction and now in another, at one time ravaging the enemy's country,
‘at another looking out for a place whete the river might appear easiet for him to ford it, The


Page 109, Instance 2, Class: Text
approach may be safer for the horses and beasts of burden, and at the same time to serve as
‘bond tothe bridge. Ina short time the whole i finished with a great noise and bustle; but
Yet discipline is not relaxed while the work is going on. In each vessel the exhortations of
‘the overseers to the men, or their censures of sluggishness, neither prevent the orders being
‘heard nor impede the rapidity ofthe work.“


Page 110, Instance 0, Class: Text
directions. He also conveyed corn from all quarters into his camp from the land on this side
the Hydaspes, so that it might be evident to Porus that he had resolved to remain quiet near
the bank until the water ofthe river subsided inthe winter, and afforded him a passage in
many places. As his vessels were sailing up and down the river, and skins were being filled
‘with bay, and the whole bank appeared to be covered in one place with cavalry and in
another with infantry, Porus was not allowed to Keep at res, of to bring his preparations
together from all sides to any one point it he selected this as suitable forthe defence ofthe
passage. Besides at this season all the Indian rivers were flowing with swollen and turbid
‘Waters and with rapid currents: for it was the time of year when the sun is wont to turn
towards the summer solstice” At this season incessant and heavy rain falls in India; and
the snows on the Caucasus, whence most of the rivers have their sources, melt and sovell
their streams toa great degree. But in the winter they again subside, become smal and cleat,
and are fordable in cettain places, wth the exception ofthe Indus, Ganges, and pethaps one
‘or two others. At any rate the Hydaspes becomes fordable
CHAPTER X.
ALEXANDER AND PoRUS AF TIE HyDasPus
‘Aurxawpen therefore spread a report that he would wait for that season of the year if his
passage was obstructed atthe present ime; but yet all the ime be was waiting in ambush to
see whether by rapidity of movement he could steal a passage anywhere without being
‘observed. But he perceived that it was impossible for him to cross atthe place where Porus
himself had encamped near the bank of the Hydaspes, not only on account ofthe multitude
‘of his elephants, but also because his large army, aeranged in order of battle and splendidly
accoutred, was ready to attack his men as they emerged from the water. Moreover he
thought that his horses Would not be willing to mount the opposite bank, because the
clephants would at once fall upon them and frighten them both by their aspect and
‘rumpeting: nor even before that would they remain upon the inflated hides during the
passage of the river; but when they looked aeross and saw the elephants they would become
frantic and leap into the water. He therefore resolved to steal a crossing by the following
manceuvee:—In the night he led most of his cavalry along the bank in various directions,
making a clamour and raising the batle-cry in honour of Enyalius" Every kind of noise
‘was raised, a if they were making all the preparations necessary for crossing the river
Pos also marched along the river at the head of his elephants opposite the places where the
clamour was heard, and Alexander thus gradually got him into the habit of leading his men
along opposite the noise. But when this occurred frequently, and there was merely a clamour
land a raising of the battle-ry, Porus no longer continued to move about to meet the 283
expected advance of the cavalry: but perceiving that his fear had been groundless,” he kept
his positon in the camp. However he posted his scouts at many places along the bank
When \lexander had brought it about thatthe mind of Porus no longer entertained any fear
‘of his nocturnal attempts, he devised the following stratagem.
CHAPTER XI.
ALEXANDER'S STRAAGIA TO GET ACROSS.


Page 110, Instance 1, Class: Text
rest of his troops he entrusted’ to his different generals, and sent them about in many

directions. He also conveyed cor from all quarters into is camp from the land on this side
the Hydaspes, so that it might be evident to Porus that he had resolved to remain quit near
the bank until the water ofthe river subsided inthe winter, and afforded him a passage in
many places. As his vessels were sailing up and down the river, and skins were being filled
with Bay, and the whole bank appeared to be covered in one place with cavalry and in
another With infanty, Porus was not allowed to Keep at rest, of to bring his preparations
together from all sides to any one point it he selected this as suitable forthe defence ofthe
passage. Besides at this season all the Indian rivers were flowing with swollen and turbid
Waters and with rapid currents; for it was the time of year when the sun is wont to turn
towards the summer solstice” At this season incessant and heavy rain falls in India; and
the snows on the Caucasus, whence most of the svers have their sources, melt and swell
their streams toa great degree. But in the winter they again subside, become small and clear,
and ate fordable in certain places, withthe exception of the Indus, Ganges, and pethaps one
‘or two others. At any rate the Hydaspes becomes fordable


Page 111, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XIL
PASSAGE OF THE Hypasees,

‘SucH were the injunctions laid upon Craterus. Between the island and the great camp where
‘Alexander had left this general, he posted Meleager, Atlus, and Gorgias, with the Grecian
mercenaries, cavalry and infantry, giving them instructions to cross) in detachments,
breaking up the army as soon as they saw the Indians already involved in batle. He then
picked the select body-guard called the Companions, as well as the cavalry regiments of
Hephaestion, Perdiceas, and Demetrius, the cavalry from Bactria, Sogdiana, and Seythia,
and the Daan horse-arehers; and from the phalanx of infantry the shield-bearing guards, the
brigades of Clitus and Coenus, with the archers and Agrianians, and made a secret march,
keeping far away from the bank of the river, in order not to be seen marching towards the
island and headland, from which he had determined to cross. There the skins were filled in
the night with the hay which had been procured long before, and they were tightly stitched
up. In the night a furious storm of rain occurred, by which his preparations and attempt to
cross were rendered still more unobserved, since the noise of the thunder and the storm
drowned with its din the clatter of the weapons and the noise which arose from the orders
tien by the officers. Most of the vessels, the thirty-oared galleys included with the rest, had
‘been cut in pieces by his order and conveyed to this place, where they had been fixed
together again” and hidden in the wood. At the approach of daylight, both the wind and the
rain calmed down; and the rest of the army went over opposite the island, the cavalry
mounting upon the skins, and as many of the foot soldiers as the boats would receive getting
into them. They Went so secretly that they were not observed by the sentinels posted by
Porus, before they had already got beyond the island and were only a little way from the
‘other bank.


Page 111, Instance 1, Class: Text
its being uninhabited. Perceiving that this island was right in front of the headland, and that
‘oth the spots were woody and adapted to conceal his attempt to cross the river, he resolved
to convey his army over at this place. The headland and island were 150 stades distant from
his great camp.” Along the whole of the bank, he posted senties, separated as far as was
consistent with keeping each other in sight, and easily hearing when any order should be
sent along from any quarter. From all sides also during many nights clamours were raised
and fires were burnt. But when he had made up his mind to undertake the passage of the
river, he openly prepared his measures for crossing opposite the camp. Craterus had been
left behind at the camp with his own division of cavalry, and the horsemen from the
‘Arachotians and Parapamisadians, as well as the brigades of Aleetas and Polysperchon from
‘the phalanx of the Macedonian infantry, together with the chiefs ofthe Indians dwelling this 2
side of the Hyphasis, who had with them 5,000 men. He gave Craterus orders not to ross
the river before Porus moved off with his forces against them, or before be ascertained that
Porus was in flight and that they were vietorious."* “If however,” said he, “Porus should
take only a part of his army and march against me, and leave the othet part with the
elephants in his camp, in that ease do thou also remain in thy present position. But if he
leads all his elephants with him against me, and a part of the rest of his army is left behind
inthe camp, then do thou eross the river with all speed. For itis the elephants alone,” said
hae, “which render it impossible forthe horses to land on the other bank. The rest of the army
‘can easily cross.”


Page 112, Instance 0, Class: Text
ALexaNpeR himself embarked in a thirty-oared galley and went over, accompanied by
Perdiceas, Lysimachus, the confidential body-guards, Seleucus, one of the Companions,
Who was afterwards king," and half of the shield-bearing guards; the rest of these troops
being conveyed in other galleys of the same size. When the soldiers got beyond the island, 28
‘they openly directed their course to the bank; and when the sentinels perceived that they had
started, they at once rode off to Porus as fast as each man’s horse could gallop. Alexander
himself was the fist to land, and he at once took the cavalry as they kept on landing from
his own and the other thity-oared galleys, and drew them up in proper order. For the
cavalry had received orders to land first; and at the head of these in regular array he
advanced. But through ignorance of the locality he had effected a landing on ground which
was not a part ofthe mainland, but an island, a large one indeed and where from the fat that
it was an island, he more easly escaped notice. It was cutoff from the est of the land by a
part of the river where the water was shallow. However, the furious storm of rain, which
Tasted the greater pat of the night, had swelled the water So much that his eavalry could not
find out the ford; and he was affaid that he would have to undergo another labour in
crossing as great as the frst. But when at last the ford was found, he le his men through it
with much difficulty; for where the water was deepest, it reached higher than the breasts of
the infantry; and of the horses only the heads rose above the river‘S! When he had also
crossed this piece of water, he selected the choice guard of cavalry, and the best men from
the other cavalry regiments, and brought them up from column into Tine on the right
wing. In font of all the cavalry he posted the horse-archers, and placed next t0 the
cavalry in front ofthe other infantry the foyalshield-bearing guards under the command of
Seleucus. Near these he placed the royal foot-guard, and next to these the other shield- 28
‘bearing guards, as each happened atthe time to have the right of precedence. On each side,
at the extremities ofthe phalanx, his archers, Agrianians and javelin-rowers were posted


Page 112, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘being conveyed in other gallcys of the same size. When the soldiers got beyond the island, 23
they openly directed thet couse tothe bank: and when the sentinels perceived that they had
started, they at once rode off to Porus as fast as each man’s horse could gallop. Alexander
himself was the first to land, and he at once took the cavalry as they kept on landing feom
his own and the other thity-oared galleys, and drew them up in proper order. For the
cavalry had received orders to land first, and at the head of these in regular array he
‘advanced. But through ignorance ofthe locality he had effected a landing on ground which
was nota part ofthe mainland, but an island, a large one indeed and where fom the fact that
it as an sland, he more easly escaped notice. It was eut off fom the rest of the land by a
part of the river where the water was shallow. However, the furious storm of rain, which
Tasted the greater part of the night, had swelled the water so much that his cavalry could not
find out the ford; and he was affaid that he would have to undergo another labour in
crossing as great asthe first. But when at last the ford was found, he led his men through it
with much dificuly; for where the water was deepest, it reached higher than the breasts of
the infanty; and of the hoses only the heads rose above the river! When he had also
cxossd this piece of water, he selected the choice guard of cavalry, and the best mea from
the other cavalry regiments, and brought them up from column into line’ on the right
wing. In front of all the cavalry he posted the horse-archers, and placed next 10 the
cavalry in front ofthe other infantry the royal shield-bearing guards under the command of
Seleueus. Near these he placed the royal foot-guard, and next to these the other shield- 2s
‘bearing guards, as each happened atthe time to have the right of precedence. On each side,
atthe extremities of the phalans, his archers, Agrianians and javelin-lowers were posted

CHAPTER XIV.
‘Tur Barvur ar-rue Hypasees.
Hovine thus arranged his army, he ordered the infanty to follow at a slow pace and in
regular order, numbering a it did not much under 6,000 men; and because he thought he
was superior in cavalry, he took only his horse-soldirs, who were 5,000 in number, and led
them forward with speed. He also instructed Tauron, the commander of the archers, to lead
them on also with speed to back up the cavalry. He had come tothe conclusion that if Porus
should engage him with all is frees, he would easily be able to overcome him by atacking
With is cavalry, oto stand onthe defensive until his infantry arrived in the couse ofthe
action; but ifthe Indians should be alarmed at his extraordinary audacity in making the
passaue ofthe river and take flight, he would beable to keep close to them in thie fight,
so thatthe slaughter of them inthe reteat being greater, there would be only a slight work
Tei for him. Aristobulus sas thatthe son of Porus arrived with about sixty chariot, before
‘Alexander made his later passage fom the large island, and that he could have hindered
‘Alexander's crossing (for he made the passage with difficulty even when no one opposed
him) ifthe Indians had leaped down from thei chariots and assaulted those who first
‘emerged from the water. But he passed by withthe chariots and thus made the passage quite
safe for Alexander; who on reaching the bank discharged his horse-archers against the
Indians in the chariots, and these were easily put to rout, many of them being wounded. 2
(Other writers say that battle took place between the Indians who came with the son of
Ponis and Alexander atthe head of his cavaly, thatthe son of Porus came with a greater
force, that Alexander himself was wounded by him, and that his horse Bucephalas, of which
hhe was exceedingly fond, was killed, being Wounded, like bis master by the son of Porus
But Ptolemy, son of Lagus, with whom I agree, gives a different account. This author also


Page 112, Instance 2, Class: Text
BAR IRIN ADV.
‘Tue Barri: ar Tue Hypasoes.
Havin thus arranged his army, he ordered the infantry to follow at a slow pace and in
regular order, numbering as it did not much under 6,000 men; and because he thought he
Was superior in cavalry, he took only his horse-soldiers, who were 5,000 in number, and led
them forward with speed. He also instructed Tauron, the commander of the archers, 10 lead
‘them on also with speed to back up the cavalry. He had come to the conclusion that if Porus
should engage him with all his forces, he would easily be able to overcome him by attacking
With his cavalry, orto stand on the defensive until his infantry arrived in the course of the
action; but if the Indians should be alarmed at his extraordinary audacity in making the
passage of the river and take to flight, he would be able to keep close to them in their flight,
So that the slaughter of them in the retreat being greater, there would be only a slight work
left for him. Aristobulus says that the son of Porus arrived with about sixty chariots, before
‘Alexander made his later passage from the large island, and that he could have hindered
‘Alexander's crossing (for he made the passage with difficulty even when no one opposed
hhim); if the Indians had leaped down from their chariots and assaulted those who fist
‘emerged from the water. But he passed by with the chariots and thus made the passage quite
safe for Alexander; who on reaching the bank discharged his horse-archers against the
Indians in the chariots, and these were easily put to rout, many of them being wounded.
Other writers say that a battle took place between the Indians who came with the son of
Porus anid Alexander at the head of his cavalry, that the son of Porus came with a greater
force, that Alexander himself was wounded by him, and that his horse Bucephalas, of which
he was exceedingly fond, was killed, being wounded, like his master by the son of Porus.
But Prolemy, son of Lagus, with whom I agree, gives a different account. This author also


Page 113, Instance 0, Class: Text
ia) Chanots, Det teat Alexander Ba? amcacy mace even the inet passage om the wane
before he appeared.
CHAPTER XV.
ARRANGEMENTS OF PoRUS.

Provemy also says that Alexander in the first place sent the horse-archers against these, and
led the cavalry himself, thinking that Porus was approaching with all his forces, and that this
body of cavalry was marching in front of the rest of his army, being drawn up by him as the
Vanguard. But as soon as he had ascertained with accuracy the number of the Indians, he
immediately made a rapid charge upon them with the cavalry around him. When they
perceived that Alexander himself and the body of cavalry around him had made the assault,
not in line of battle regularly formed, but by squadrons, they gave way; and 400 of their
cavalry, including the son of Porus, fell in the contest. The chariots also were captured,
horses and all, being heavy and slow in the retreat, and useless in the action itself on
account of the clayey grourid, When the horsemen who had escaped from this rout brought
news to Porus that Alexander himself had erossed the river with the strongest part of his
‘army, and that his son had been slain in the battle, he nevertheless could not make up his
mind what course to take, because the men who had been left behind under Craterus were
seen to be attempting to cross the river from the great camp which was directly opposite his
position, However, at lst he preferred to march against Alexander himself with all his army,
and to come into a decisive conflict with the strongest division of the Macedonians,
‘commanded by the king in person, But nevertheless he left a few of the elephants together
With a small army there at the camp to frighten the cavalry under Craterus from the bank of
the river, He then took all his cavalry to the aumber of 4,000 men, all his chariots to the
number of 300, with 200 of his elephants and 30,000 choice infantry, and marched against
‘Alexander. When he found a place where he saw there was no clay, but that on account of
the sand the ground was all level and hard, and thus fit forthe advance and retreat of horses,
he there drew up his army. First he placed the elephants in the front, each animal being not
less than a plethrum'” apart, so that they might be extended in the front before the whole of
the phalans of infantry, and produce terror everywhere among Alexander's cavalry. Besides
he thought that none of the enemy would have the audacity to push themselves into the
spaces between the elephants, the cavalry being deterred by the fright oftheir horses; and
still less would the infantry do so, it being likely they would be kept off in front by the
hheavy-armed soldiers falling upon them, and trampled down by the elephants wheeling
round against them. Near these he had posted the infantry, not oceupying a line on a level
With the beasts, but in a second line behind them, only so far distant that the companies of
foot might be pushed forward a short distance into the spaces between them. He had also
bodies of infantry standing beyond the elephants on the wings; and on both sides of the
infantry he had posted the cavalry, infront of which were placed the chariots on both wings
‘of his army.


Page 113, Instance 2, Class: Text
says Mat torus Cespalched NS son, Dur nor ab the Head Of Merely sicly Chariots, NOL 1s ir

indeed likely that Porus hearing from his scouts that either Alexander himself or at any rate
4a part of his army had effected the passage of the Hydaspes, would despatch his son against
him with only sixty chariots. These indeed were too many to be sent out as a reconnoitring
party, and not adapted for speedy retreat; but they were by no means a sufficient force to
keep back those of the enemy who had not yet got across, as well as to attack those who had
already landed, Ptolemy says that the son of Porus arzived at the head of 2000 cavalry and
120 chariots; but that Alexander had already made even the last passage from the island
before he appeared.


Page 114, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER AVIL
Derear or Pores.
MraNtine the Indians had collected their cavalry from all parts, and were riding along,
advancing out of their positon to meet Alexander's charge. Coenus also appeared with his
men in their rer, according o his instructions. The Indians, observing ths, were compelled
to make the line of their cavalry face both ways; the largest and best part against
‘Alexander, while the rest wheeled round against Coenus and his forces. This therefore at
‘once threw the ranks as well as the decisions of the Indians into confusion. Alexander,
seeing his opportunity, atthe very moment the cavalry was wheeling round in the other
direction, made an attack on those opposed to him with such vigour thatthe Indians could
not sustain the charge of his cavalry, but were scattered and driven tothe elephants, as to a
friendly wall, for refuge. Upon this, the drivers of the elephants urged forward the beasts
against the cavalry; but now the phalanx itself of the Macedonians was advancing against
the elephants, the men casting darts at the riders and also striking the beasts themselves,
standing round them on all sides. The action was unlike any of the previous contests: for
Wherever the beasts could wheel round, they rushed forth against the ranks of infantry and
demolished the phalanx of the Macedonians, dense as it was. The Indian cavalry also,
seeing thatthe infantry were engaged in the action, rallied again and advanced against the
Macedonian cavalry. But when Alexander's men, who far excelled both in strength and
military discipline, got the mastery over them the second time, they were again repulsed
towards the elephants and cooped up among them. By ths time the whole of Alexander's,
cavalry had collected into one squadron, not by any command of his, bt having settled into
this arrangement by the mere effect ofthe strugele itself; and wherever it fll upon the ranks
of the Indians they were broken up with great slaughter. The beasts being now cooped up


Page 114, Instance 2, Class: Text
Suct was the arrangement which Porus made of his forces. As soon as Alexander observed
that the Indians were drawn up in order of battle, he stopped his cavalry from advancing
farther, so that he might take up the infantry as it Kept on asiving: and even when the
phalanx in quick march had effete a junction with the cavalry, he did not at once draw it
‘out and lead it to the attack, not wishing to hand over his men exhausted with fatigue and
‘out of breath, tothe barbarians who were fesh and untired. On the contrary he caused his
infantry to rest until thee strength was reerited, siding along round the lines to inspect
them: When he had surveyed the arrangement ofthe Indians, he resolved not to advance
against the cent, infront of which the elephants had been posted, and inthe paps between
them a dense phalanx of men; for he was alarmed at the very arrangements which Porus had
made here with that express design. But ashe was superior inthe number of his cavalry he >
took the greater part of that free, and marched along against the lft wing ofthe enemy for
the purpose of making an attack in this direction, Against the right wing he sent Coenus
with his own regiment of cavalry and that of Demetrius, with instructions to keep close
‘behind the barbarians when the, seeing the dense mass of cavalry opposed t them, should
ride ou to fight them. Seleucus, Antigenes, and Tauron were ordered 0 lead the phalanx of
infantry, but not to engage in the action until they observed the enemy’s cavalry and
‘phalanx of infanty thrown into disorder by the cavalry under his own command. But when
they came within range of missiles, he launched the hose-archers, 1000 in number, against
the left wing ofthe Indians, in order to throw those ofthe enemy who were posted there into
confusion by the incessant storm of arrows and by the charge ofthe horses. He himself with
the Companion eavalry marched along rapidly against the left wing ofthe barbarians, being
‘eager to attack them i flank while sill in a state of disorder, before thei cavalry could be
deployed.


Page 114, Instance 3, Class: Text
SUCH was the arrangement which Porus mace ol iis forces. /\s soon as /lexander observed
that the Indians were drawn up in order of battle, he stopped hhs cavalry from advancing
farther, so that he might take up the infantry as it kept on arriving: and even when the
phalanx in quick march had effected a junction with the cavalry, he didnot at once draw it
‘out and lead it to the attack, not wishing to hand over his men exhausted with fatigue and
‘out of breath, tothe barbarians who were fesh and untired. On the contrary, he caused his
infantry 10 rest until their strength was recruited, riding along round the lines to inspect
them. When he had surveyed the arrangement ofthe Indians, he resolved not to advance
against the centre, infront of which the elephants had been posted, and in the gaps between
them a dense phalanx of men: for he was alarmed at the very arrangements which Porus had
made here with that express design. But as he was superior in the number of his cavalry, he 291
took the greater part of that foree, and marched along against the left wing ofthe enemy for
the purpose of making an attack in this direction. Against the right wing he sent Coenus
with his own regiment of cavalry and that of Demetrius, with instructions to Keep close
‘bchind the barbarians when they, seeing the dense mass of cavalry opposed fo them, should
ride out to fight them, Seleucus, Antigenes, and Tauron were ordered to lead the phalanx of
infantry, but not to engage in the action until they observed” the enemy's cavalry and
phalanx of infantry thrown into disorder by the cavalry under his own command. But when
they came within range of missiles, he launched the horse-archers, 1000 in number, against
‘the left wing ofthe Indians, in order to throw those of the enemy who were posted there into
confusion by the incessant storm of arrows and by the charge ofthe horses. He himself with
‘the Companion cavalry marched along rapidly against the left wing ofthe barbarians, being
‘eager to attack them in flank while still in a state of disorder, before thei cavalry could be
deployed.

CHAPTER XVIL
Derear or Pores.
MraNtine the Indians had collected their cavalry from all parts, and were riding along,
advancing out of their positon to meet Alexander's charge. Coenus also appeared with his
men in their rer, according o his instructions. The Indians, observing ths, were compelled
to make the line of their cavalry face both ways; the largest and best part against
‘Alexander, while the rest wheeled round against Coenus and his forces. This therefore at
‘once threw the ranks as well as the decisions of the Indians into confusion. Alexander, 292
seeing his opportunity, atthe very moment the cavalry was wheeling round in the other
direction, made an attack on those opposed to him with such vigour thatthe Indians could
not sustain the charge of his cavalry, but were scattered and driven tothe elephants, as to a
friendly wall, for refuge. Upon this, the drivers of the elephants urged forward the beasts
against the cavalry; but now the phalanx itself of the Macedonians was advancing against
the elephants, the men casting darts at the riders and also striking the beasts themselves,
standing round them on all sides. The action was unlike any of the previous contests: for
Wherever the beasts could wheel round, they rushed forth against the ranks of infantry and
demolished the phalanx of the Macedonians, dense as it was. The Indian cavalry also,
seeing thatthe infantry were engaged in the action, rallied again and advanced against the
Macedonian cavalry. But when Alexander's men, who far excelled both in strength and
military discipline, got the mastery over them the second time, they were again repulsed
towards the elephants and cooped up among them. By ths time the whole of Alexander's,
cavalry had collected into one squadron, not by any command of his, bt having settled into
this arrangement by the mere effect ofthe strugele itself; and wherever it fll upon the ranks
of tan Indiana they were broken wn with oreat alanchter The heaste heine naar cocned un


Page 115, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Through the spaces which intervened between te parts oF Alexander's cavalry.
CHAPTER XVIIL
Losses oF rir Conmarants.—PorUs SURRENDERS.
‘Ar the same time Craterus and the other officers of Alexander's army who had been left
‘behind on the bank of the Hydaspes crossed the river, when they perceived that Alexander
was winning a brilliant vietory. These men, being fresh, followed up the pursuit instead of
‘Alexander's exhausted troops, and made no less a slaughter of the Indians in their retreat
(Of the Indians little short of 20,000 infantry and 3,000 cavalry were killed in this batl.°"”
All their chariots were broken to pieces; and two sons of Porus were slain, as were also
Spitaces, the governor ofthe Indians of that district, the managers ofthe elephants and of
‘the chariots, and all the cavalry officers and generals of Porus's army. All the elephants
Which were not killed there, were captured. OF Alexander's forces, about 80 of the 6,000
foot-soldiers who were engaged inthe first attack, were killed; 10 of the horse-archers, who
were also the fist to engage in the action; about 20 of the Companion cavalry, and about
200 of the other horsemen fell"* When Porus, who exhibited great talent in the battle,
performing the deeds not only of @ general but also of a valiant soldier, observed the
slaughter of his cavalry, and some of his elephants lying dead, others destitute of keepers
straying about in a forlorn condition, while most of his infantry had perished, he did not
depart as Darius the Great King did, setting an example of flight to his men; but as long as
any body of Indians remained compact in the battle, he kept up the struggle. But at lst,
having received a wound on the right shoulder, which part of his body alone was
unprotected during the batle, he wheeled round. His coat of mail warded off the missiles
from the rest of his body, being extraordinary both for is strength and the close fitting of its
joints, as it was afterwards possible for those who saw him to observe. Then indeed he
turned his elephant round and began to retire. Alexander, having seen that he was a great
man and valiant in the battle, was very desirous of saving his life. He accordingly sent first
to him Taxiles the Indian; who rode up as near to the elephant which was earying Porus as
seemed to him safe, and bade him stop the beast, assuring him that it was no longer possible
for him to fle, and bidding him listen to Alexander's message. But when he saw his old foe
‘Taxes, he wheeled round and was preparing to strike him with a javelin; and he would
probabiy have killed him, if he had not quickly driven his horse forward out of the reach of
Porus before he could strike him. But not even on this account was Alexander angry with


Page 115, Instance 1, Class: Text
into a narrow space, their friends were no less injured by them than their foes, being
‘ampled down in their wheeling and pushing about, Accordingly there ensued a great
slaughter ofthe cavalry, cooped up as it was in a narrow space around the elephants. Most
of the keepers of the elephants had been killed by the javelins, and some of the elephants
themselves had been wounded, while others no longer Kept apart in the battle on account of
their sufferings oF from being destitute of keepers. But, as if frantic with pain, rushing 2
forward at friends and foes alike, they pushed about, trampled down and killed them in
every kind of way. However, the Macedonians retired whenever they were assailed, for they
rushed at the beasts in a more open space, and in accordance with their own plan; and when
they wheeled round to return, they followed them closely and hurled javelins at them;
whereas the Indians retreating among them were now receiving greater injury from them,
But when the beasts were tired out, and they were no longer able to charge with any vigour,
they began to retire, facing the foe like ships backing water, merely uttering a shrill piping
sound. Alexander himself surrounded the whole line with his cavalry, and gave the signal
‘thatthe infantry should link their shields together so as to form a very densely closed body,
and thus advance in phalanx. By this means the Indian cavalry, with the exception of a few
men, was quite cut up in the action; as was also the infantry, Since the Macedonians were
now pressing upon them from all sides. Upon this, all who could do so turned to flight
through the spaces which intervened between the parts of Alexander’s cavalry.


Page 116, Instance 0, Class: Text
ordered Merots to lead hem without delay to Alexander; and Morote led him thither,
CHAPTER XIX.
AuLiaNce wrrt Porus—Dexti or BUCEPHALAS.

Wire Alexander heard that Meroés was bringing Porus to him, he rode in front of the line
‘with @ few of the Companions to meet Porus; and stopping his horse, he admired his,
handsome figure and his stature,” which reached somewhat above five cubits. He was also
surprised that he did not seem to be cowed in spirit” but advanced to meet him as one
‘brave man would meet another brave man, after having gallantly struggled in defence of his,
‘own kingdom against another king. Then indeed Alexander was the first to speak, bidding
him say what teatment he would like to receive. The report goes that Porus replied: “Treat
me, O Alexander, ina kingly way!” Alexander being pleased at the expression, said: “For 2
my own sake, © Porus, thou shalt be thus treated; but for thy own sake do thou demand
‘what is pleasing to thee!” But Porus said that everything was included in that. Alexander,
‘being still more pleased at this remark, not only granted him the rule over his own Tndians,
but also added another country to that which he had before, of larger extent than the
former: Thus he treated the brave man in a kingly way, and from that time found him
faithful in all things. Such was the result of Alexander's battle with Porus and the Indians
living beyond the river Hydaspes, which was fought in the archonship of Hegemon. at
‘Athens, in the month Munychion®” (18 April t0 18 May, 326 n.c).

‘Alexander founded two cities, one where the battle took place, and the other on the spot
‘whence he started to cross the river Hydaspes; the former he named Nicaea, after his
Victory over the Indians, and the later Bueephala in memory of his horse Bucephalas, which
died there, not from having been wounded by any one, but from the effects of toil and old
age; for he was about thirty years old, and quite worn out with til°* This Bueephalas had
shared many hardships and incurred many dangers with Alexander during many years,
being ridden by none but the king, because he rejected all other riders. He was both of
unusual size and generous in mettle. The head of an ox had been engraved upon him as a
distinguishing mark, and aecording to some this was the reason why he bore that name; but 2
‘others say, that though he was black he had a white mark upon his head which bore a great
resemblance to the head of an ox. In the land of the Uxians this horse vanished from
‘Alexander, who thereupon sent a proclamation throughout the country that he would kil all
‘the inhabitants, unless they brought the horse back to him. As a result of this proclamation it
‘was immediately brought back. So great was Alexander's attachment to the horse, and so
‘reat was the fear of Alexander entertained by the barbarians." Let so much honour be
paid by me to this Bucephalas forthe sake of his master.

CHAPTER XX.

Conquest oF THE GLAUSIANS.—EMMASSY FROM AMISARES.—PASSAGE OF THE ACESINES,
Waren Alexander had paid all due honours to those who had been killed in the battle, he
offered the customary sacrifices to the gods in gratitude for his victory, and celebrated a


Page 116, Instance 1, Class: Text
Porus; but he kept on sending others in succession; and last of all Meroés an Indian, because
he ascertained that he was an old friend of Porus. As soon as the latter heard the message
Drought to him by Meroés, being at the same time overcome by thirst, he stopped his
elephant and dismounted from it. After he had drunk some water and felt refreshed, he
‘ordered Merois to lead him without delay to Alexander; and Merods led him thither"


Page 117, Instance 0, Class: Text
fortify the cities which he was founding there; but he himself marched against the Indians
conterminous with the dominion of Porus. According to Aristobulus the name of this nation
was Glauganicians; but Ptolemy calls them Glausians. lam quite indifferent which name it
bore. Alexander traversed ther land with half the Companion cavalry, the picked men from
cach phalanx of the infantry, all the horse-bowmen, the Agrianians, and the archers. All the 29
inhabitants came over to him on terms of capitulation; and he thus took thirty-seven cities,
‘the inhabitants of which, where they were fewest, amounted to no less than 5,000, and those
‘of many numbered above 10,000. Ife also took many villages, which were no less populous,
‘than the cities. This land also he granted to Porus to rule; and sent Taxiles back to his own
abode after affecting a reconciliation between him and Porus. At this time arrived envoys
from Abisares,”* who told him that their King was ready to surrender himself and the land
Which he ruled, And yet before the battle which was fought between Alexander and Porus,
Abisares intended to join his frees with those of the latter. On this occasion he sent his
brother with the other envoys to Alexander, taking with them money and forty elephants as
gift. Envoys also arrived from the independent Indians, and from a certain other Indian
ruler named Porus:” Alexander ordered Abisares to come 10 him as soon as possible,
‘threatening that unless he came he would see him arvive with his army ata place where he
would not rejoice to see him. At this time Phrataphernes, viceroy of Parthia and Hyreania,
came to Alexander at the head of the Thracians who had been left with him. Messengers
also came from Sisicottus, viceroy of the Assacenians, to inform him that those people had
slain their governor and revolted from Alexander. Against these he despatched Philip and
‘Tyriaspes with an army, to arrange and set in order the affairs of their lan.

He himself advanced towards the river Acesines."® Ptolemy, son of Lagus, has
described the sizeof this river alone of those in India, stating that where Alexander erossed
it with his army upon boats and skins, the stream was rapid and the channel was full of large
and sharp rocks, over which the water being violently carried seethed and dashed. He says
also that is breadth amounted to fifteen stades; that those who went over upon skins had an
easy passage; but that not a few of those who erossed in the boats perished there in the
water, many of the boats being wrecked upon the rocks and dashed to pieces. From this
description then it would be possible for one to come to a conclusion by comparison, that
the size of the river Indus has been stated not far from the fact by those who think that its
mean breadth is forty stades, but that it contracts to fifteen stades where itis narrowest and
therefore deepest; and that this is the width ofthe Indus in many places. I come then to the
conclusion that Alexander chose a part of the Acesines where the passage was widest, so
‘that he might find the stream slower than elsewhere.

CHAPTER XXL.
ADYANCE BEYOND TH HYDRAOTES,
Arter crossing the rive,” he left Coenus with his own brigade there upon the bank, with
instructions to superintend the passage of the part of the army which had been left behind
for the purpose of collecting” com and other supplies from the country of the Indians
Which was already subject to him. He now sent Porus away to his own abode, commanding


Page 117, Instance 1, Class: Text
ADVANCE BEvoND THE HypRaomts.
Arter crossing the river,” he left Coenus with his own brigade there upon the bank, with
instructions to superintend the passage of the part of the army which had been left behind
for the purpose of collecting" corm and other supplies from the country of the Indians
which was already subject to him, He now sent Porus away to his own abode, commanding
hhim to select the most warlike of the Indians and take all the elephants he had and come to 30
him, He resolved to pursue the other Porus, the bad one, with the lightest troops in his army,
because he was informed that he had left the land which he ruled and had fled. For this
Porus, while hostilities subsisted between Alexander and the other Porus, sent envoys to
Alexander offering to surrender both himself and the land subject to him, rather out of
‘enmity to Porus than from friendship to Alexander. But when he ascertained thatthe former
had been released, and that he was ruling over another large country in addition to his own,


Page 118, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXII
INVASION OF THE LAND OF THE CATHAEANS,
Mrawrintr he received information that the tribe called Cathacuns and some other tribes of
the independent Indians were preparing for battle, iThe approached their land; and that they
Were summoning to the enterprise all the tribes conterminous with them who were in like
manner independent. He was also informed that the city, Sangala by name," near which
they were thinking of having the struggle, was a strong one. The Cathaeans themselves were
considered very daring and skilful in war; and two other tribes of Indians, the Oxydracians
and Mallians, were in the same temper as the Cathaeans. For a short time before it happened
that Porus and Abisares had marched against them with their own forces and had roused
many other tribes of the independent Indians to arms, but were forced to retreat without
effecting anything worthy of the preparations they had made. When Alexander was
informed of this, he made a forced march against the Cathaeans, and on the second day after
starting from the river Hydraotes he arrived ata city called Pimprama, inhabited by a tribe
of Indians named Adraistaeans, who yielded to him on terms of capitulation. Giving his
army a rest the next day, he advanced on the third day to Sangala, where the Cathaeans and
the other neighbouring tribes had assembled and marshalled themselves in front of the city
upon a hill which was not precipitous on all sides. They bad posted their waggons all round
this hill and were encamping within them in such a way that they were surrounded by a
triple palisade of waggons. When Alexander perceived the great number of the barbarians
fand the nature of their position, he drew up his forces in the order which seemed to him
especially adapted to his present circumstances, and sent his horse-archers at once without
any delay against them, ordering them to ride along and shoot at them from a distance; so
‘that the Indians might not be able to make any sortie, before his army was in proper array,
and that even before the battle commenced they might be wounded within their stronghold
Upon the right wing he posted the guard of cavalry and the cavalry regiment of Clitus; next
to these the shield-bearing guards, and then the Agrianians. Towards the left he had
stationed Pesdiceas with his own regiment of cavalry, and the battalions of foot
‘Companions. The archers he divided into two parts and placed them on each wing. While he
Was marshalling his army, the infantry and eavalry of the rear-guard came up. OF these, he
divided the cavalry into two parts and led them to the wings, and with the infantey which
‘came up he made the ranks of the phalanx more dense and compact. He then took the
cavalry whieh had been drawn up on the right, and led it towards the waggons on the left


Page 118, Instance 1, Class: Text
then, fearing not so much Alexander as the other Porus, his namesake, he fled from his own
land, taking with him as many of his wartiors as he could persuade to share his fight,
‘Against this man Alexander marched, and arrived at the Hydraotes,"” which is another
Indian river, not less than the Acesines in breadth, but less in swiftness of current. He
traversed the whole country as far as the Hydraotes, leaving garrisons in the most suitable
places, in order that Craterus and Coenus might advance with safety, scouring most of the
land for forage. Then he despatched Hephaestion into the land of the Porus who had
revolted, giving him a part of the army, comprising two brigades of infantry, his own
regiment of cavalry with that of Demetrius and half of the archers, with instructions to hand
the country over to the other Porus, o subdue any independent tribes of Indians which dwelt
near the banks of the river Hydraotes, and to give them also into the hands of Porus to rule
He himself then crossed the river Hydraotes, not with difficulty, as he had crossed the
‘Acesines. As he was advancing into the country beyond the Hydraotes, it happened that
most of the people yielded themselves up on terms of capitulation; but some came to meet
hhim with arms, while others who tied to escape he captured and forcibly reduced to 30
obedience.


Page 119, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXIIL
ASSAULT UPON SANGALA

‘As the Indians did not run out from behind the waggons against the advancing cavalry, but
mounted upon them and began to shoot ftom the top of them, Alexander, perceiving that it
‘was not the work for cavalry, eaped down from his horse, and on foot ied the phalanx of 3
infantry against them. The Macedonians without difficulty forced the Indians from the first
row of waggons; but then the Indians, taking their stand infront of the second row, more
easily repulsed the attack, because they were posted in denser array in a smaller circle.
Moreover the Macedonians were attacking them likewise in a confined space, while the
Indians were secretly ereeping under the front row of waggons, and without regard to
discipline were assaulting their enemy through the gaps left between the waggons as each
man found a chance." But nevertheless even from these the Indians were forebly driven
by the phalanx of infantry. They no longer made a stand atthe third row, but fled as fast as
possible into the city and shut themselves up in it. During that day Alexander with his
infantry encamped round the ety, as much of i, atleast, as his phalanx could surround; for
hhe could not with his camp completely encircle the wal, so extensive was it. Opposite the
part unenelosed by his camp, near which also was a lake, he posted the cavalry, placing
‘them all round the lake, which he discovered to be shallow. Moreover, he conjectured that
the Indians, being terrified at their previous defeat, would abandon the city in the night; and
it tumed out just as he had conjectured; for about the second watch of the night most of
‘them dropped down from the wall, but fell in with” the sentinels of eavalry. The foremost
‘of them were cut to pieces by these; but the men behind them perceiving that the lake was
‘guarded all round, withdrew into the city again. Alexander now surrounded the city with a
double stockade, except in the part where the lake shut it in, and round the lake he posted
more perfect guards. He also resolved to bring military engines up 0 the wall, to batter it
down. But some of the men in the city deserted to him, and told him that the Indians
intended that very night to steal out ofthe city and escape by the lake, where the gap in the
stockade existed. He accordingly stationed Prolemy, son of Lagus, there, giving him three
regiments ofthe shield-bearing guards, all the Agrianians, and one line of archers, pointing
‘out to him the place where he especially conjectured the barbarians would try to force their
‘way. “When thou pereeivest the barbarians foreing their way here,” said he, “do thou, with
the army obstruct their advance, and order the bugler to give the signal. And do you, O
officers, as soon as the signal has been given, each being arrayed in battle order with your
‘own men, advance towards the noise, wherever the bugle summons you. Nor will T myself
‘withdraw from the ation.”

CHAPTER XXIV,

Capture OF SANGALA.


Page 119, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXIV.

CAPTURE OF SANGALA,
Suct were the orders he gave: and Ptolemy collected there as many waggons as he could
from those which had been left behind in the first flight, and placed them athwar, so that
there might seem to the fugitives in the night to be many difficulties in their way’ and as the
stockade had been knocked down, or had not been firmly fixed in the ground, he ordered his
men to heap up a mound of eatth in various places between the lake and the wall. This his
soldiers effected in the night. When it was about the fourth watch,”"” the barbarians, just as


Page 120, Instance 0, Class: Text
direction. However they did not escape the notice of the guards there, nor that of Prolemy,
who had been placed bebind them to render aid. But at this moment the buglers gave hizn
the signal, and he advanced against the barbarians with is army fully equipped and drawn
up in batle array. Moreover the waggons and the stockade which had been placed in the
intervening space, were an obstruction to them. When the bugle sounded and Prolemy
attacked them, kiling the men as they Kept on stealing out through the waggons, then
indeed they were driven back again into the ety; and in their retreat 500 of them were
Killed. nthe meanwhile Porus arzived, bringing with him the elephants that were left to
him, and 5,000 Indians. Alexander hail constucted his military engines and they were being
led upto the wal: but before any of it was battered down, the Macedonians took the ety by
stom digging under the wall, which was made of brick, and placing scaling ladders apaint
it all round. In the capture 17,000 of the Indians were killed, and above 70,000 were
captured, besides 300 chariots and 500 cavalry In the whole siege a litle less than 100 of
‘Alexander's army were killed; but the numiber of the wounded was greater than the
proportion of the slain, being more than 1,200, among whom were Lysimachus, the
Confidential body-guard, and other offices. Affer burying the dead according to his custom,
Alexander sent Eumenes, the secretary, with 300 cavaly to the two cities which had
joined Sangala in revolt, to ell those who held them about the capture of Sangala, and 10»
‘form them that they would receive no harsh treatment from Alexander if they stayed there
and received him as a frend; for no harm had happened to any of the other independent
Indians who had surendered to hin of thet own accord. But they had become feghtened,
and had abandoned the cites and were lecng: for the news had already reached them that
‘Alexander had taken Sangala by storm. When Alexander was informed of their Might he
pursued them with speed; but most of them were 100 quick for him, and effected their
escape, because the pursuit began from a distant starting-place. But al those who were left
‘behind inthe eteat from weakness, were seized by the army and Killed, to the number of
about 500, Then, giving up the design of pursuing the fagitives any further, he rtumed to
Sangala, and razed the city to the ground, He added the and to that ofthe Indians Who bad
formerly been independent, but who had then voluntarily submited to him. He then sent
Pos with his forees tothe cities which had submitted to him, to inteoduce garrisons into
them: whilst he himself, with his army, advanced 1 the river Hyphasis,"” to subjugate the
Indian beyond it Nor did there seem o him any end ofthe wa, so long as anything hostile
to him remained.


Page 120, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXV.
‘Tue Ara REFUSES TO ADVANCE.—ALEXANDER’S SPEECH TO THE OFFICERS.
Tr was reported that the country beyond the river Hyphasis was fertile, and that the men
‘were good agriculturists, and gallant in war; and that they conducted their own political
affairs ina regular and constitutional manner. For the multitude was ruled by the aristocracy,
‘who governed in no respect contrary to the rules of moderation. It was also stated that the
men of that district possessed a much greater number of elephants than the other Indians,
and that those men were of very great stature, and excelled in valour. These reports excited
in Alexander an ardent desire to advance farther; but the spirit of the Macedonians now
began to flag, when they saw the king raising one labour after another, and incurring one
danger after another. Conferences were held throughout the camp, in which those who were
the most moderate bewailed their lot, while others resolutely declared that they would not
follow Alexander any farther, even if he should lead the way. When he heard of this, before
the disorder and pusillanimity of the soldiers should advance to a great degree, be called a
council of the officers of the brigades and addressed them as follows: —"O Macedonians
‘and Grecian allies, seeing that you no longer follow me into dangerous enterprises with a


Page 121, Instance 0, Class: Text
succeeding in their efforts to escape, hand over to us their deserted land, which we add to
that of our allies, or o that of those who have voluntarily submitted to us
CHAPTER XXVL.
Auexanpen’s Spec (continued),

“I, ror my part, think, that to a brave man there is no end to labours except the labours,
‘themselves, provided they lead to glorious achievements. But if any one desires to hear what 3
will be the end tothe warfare itself, lt him learn thatthe distance still remaining before we
reach the river Ganges and the Easter Sea is not reat; and [inform you that the Hyrcanian
Sea will be seen to be united with this, because the Great Sea encircles the whole earth. 1
will also demonstrate both to the Macedonians and to the Grecian alles, thatthe Indian Gulf
is confluent with the Persian, and the Hyrcanian Sea withthe Indian Gulf. From the Persian
Gulf our expedition will sail round into Libya as far as the Pillars of Heracles.” From the
pillars all the interior of Libya” becomes ours, and so the whole of Asia’ will belong to
us, and the limits of our empire, in that direction, will be those which God has made also the
limits ofthe earth. But, if we now return, many warlike nations are left unconquered beyond
‘the Hyphasis as far asthe Eastern Sea, and many besides between these and Hyreania inthe
direction ofthe north wind, and not far from these the Seythian races. Wherefore, if we g0
back, there is reason to fear thatthe races which are now held in subjection, not being firm
in their allegiance, may be excited to revolt by those who are not yet subdued. Then our 3
many labours will prove to have been in vain; or it will be necessary for us to incur over
again fresh labours and dangers, as at the beginning. But, O Macedonians and Grecian
allies, stand firm! Glorious are the deeds of those who undergo labour and run the risk of
danger; and it is delightful to live a life of valour and to die leaving behind immortal glory.
Do ye not know that our ancestor” reached so great a height of glory as from being a man
to become a god, or to seem to become one, not by remaining in Tiryns or Atgos, or even
inthe Peloponnese or at Thebes? The labours of Dionysus were not few, and he Was too
exalted a deity to be compared with Heracles. But we, indeed, have penetrated into regions
‘beyond Nysa'"”; and the rock of Aornus, which Heracles was unable to capture, is in our
possession. Do ye also add the parts of Asia still left unsubdued to those already acquired,
the few to the many. But what great or glorious deed could we have performed, if, siting at
cease in Macedonia, we had thought it sufficient to preserve our own country without any
labour, simply repelling the attacks of the nations on our frontiers, the Thracians, Ilyrians,


Page 121, Instance 1, Class: Text
resolution equal to that which formerly animated you, I have collected you together into the
same spot, so that I may’ either persuade you to march forward with me, or may be
persuaded by you to retur. If indeed the labours which you have already undergone up to
‘our present position seem to you worthy of disapprobation, and if you do not approve of my
leading you into them, there ean be no advantage in my speaking any futher. But, if as the
result of these labours, you hold possession of Ionia,” the Hellespont, both the Phrygias,
Cappadocia, Paphlagonia, Lydia, Caria, Lycia, Pamphylia, Phoenicia, Faypt together with
Grecian Libya, as well as part of Arabia, Hollow Syria, Syria between the rivers,
Babylon, the nation of the Susians, Persia, Media, besides all the nations which the Persians
and the Medes ruled, and many of those whieh they did not rule, the land beyond the
‘Caspian Gates, the country beyond the Caucasus, the Tanais, as well as the land beyond that
river, Bactria, Hyreania, and the Hyrcanian Sea: if we have also subdued the Seythians as
far as the desert; if, in addition to these, the river Indus flows through our territory, as do
also the Hydaspes, the Acesines, and the Hydraotes, why do ye shrink from adding the
Hyphasis also, and the nations beyond this river, to your empire of Macedonia? Do ye fear
that your advance will be stopped in the future by any other barbarians? OF whom some
sulbmit 10 us oftheir own accord, and others are captured inthe act of fleeing, while others,
succeeding in ther efforts to escape, hand over tous their deserted land, which we add to
that of our allies, or o that of those who have voluntarily submitted to us


Page 122, Instance 0, Class: Text
(CHAPTER XXVIL
Tur AxsweR oF Consus,
Wutex Alexander had uttered these remarks, and others in the same strain, a long silence
ensued, forthe auditors neither had the audacity to speak in opposition to the king without
constraint, nor did they wish to acquiesce in his proposal. Hereupon, he repeatedly urged
any one who wished it, to speak, if he entertained different views from those which he had
himself expressed. Nevertheless the silence still continued a long time; but at last, Coenus,
son of Polemocrates, plucked up courage and spoke as follows"”:—"O king, inasmuch as
thou dost not wish to rule Macedonians by compulsion, but sayest thou will lead them by
persuasion, or yielding to their persuasion wilt not use violence towards them, Iam going to
make a speech, not on my on behalf and that of my colleagues here present, who are held
in greater honour than the other soldiers, and most of us have already carried off the rewards
‘of our labours, and from our preeminence are more zealous than the rest to serve thee in all
‘things; but I am going to speak on behalf ofthe bulk of the army. On behalf of this army 1
am not going to say what may be gratifying to the men, but what I consider to be both
advantageous to thee at present, and safest forthe future. I fee it incumbent upon me not to
‘conceal what I think the best course to pursue, both on account of my age, the honour paid
to me by the rest of the army at thy behest, and the boldness which I have without any
hesitation displayed up to the present time in incurring dangers and undergoing labours. The
more numerous and the greater the exploits have been, which were achieved by thee as our
‘commander, and by those who started from home with thee, the more advantageous does it
seem fo me that some end should be put to out labours and dangers. For thou thyself seest
hhow many Macedonians and Greeks started with thee, and how few of us have been left. OF
‘our number thou didst well in sending back home the Thessalians at once from Bactra,
because thou didst perceive that they were no longer eager to undergo labours.” OF the
other Greeks, some have been settled as colonists in the cities which thou hast founded;
where they remain not indeed all of them of their own fee will. The Macedonian soldiers
and the other Greeks who still continued to share our labours and dangers, have either
perished in the battles, become unfit for war on account of their wounds, or been left behind
in the different parts of Asia. The majority, however, have perished from disease, so that few
are left out of many; and these few are no longer equally vigorous in body, while in spitt
they are much more exhausted. All those whose parents still survive, feel a great yearning to
see them once more; they feel a yearning after their wives and children, and a yearning for
their native land itself; which itis surely pardonable for them to yearn to see again with the
hhonour and dignity they have acquired from thee, returning as great men, whereas they
departed small, and as rich men instead of being poor. Do not lead us now against our will;
for thou wilt no longer find us the same men in regard to dangers, since free-will will be


Page 122, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘and Triballians, or even those Greeks who were unftiendly to our interests? If, indeed,
Without undergoing labour and being fee fiom danger I were acting as your commander,
‘while you were undergoing labour and incurring danger, not without reason would you be
‘rowing faint in sprit and resolution, because you alone would be sharing the labous, while
procuring the rewards of them for oers. But now the labours are common to you and me,
‘we have an equal share of the dangers, and the rewards ate open tothe feee competition of
all, For the land is yours, and you acta its viceroys. The greater pat also of the money now
comes to you: and when we have taversed the whole of Asia, then, by Zeus, not merely
having satisfied your expectations, but having even exceeded the advantages which each
man hopes to receive, those of you who wish fo return home I will send back to theie own
land, oF will myself lead them back; while those who remain here, 1 will make objects of
‘envy to those who go back"


Page 123, Instance 0, Class: Text
Wanting to us in the contests. But, rather, if it seem good to thee, return to thy own land, see
thy mother, regulate the affairs of the Greeks, and carry to the home of thy fathers these
Vietories so many and great. Then stat affesh on another expedition, if thou wishest, against
these very tribes of Indians situated towards the east; or, if thou wishest, into the Euxine
Sea’; of else against Carchedon and the parts of Libya beyond the Carchedonians.”* It is
now thy business to manage these matters; and the other Macedonians and Greeks will
follow thee, young men in place of old, fresh men in place of exhausted ones, and men to
whom warfare has no terors, because up to the present time they have had no experience of
it; and they will be eager to set out, from hope of future reward. The probability also is, that
they will aecompany thee with still more zeal on this account, when they see that those who
in the earlier expedition shared thy labours and dangers have returned to their own abodes
as rich men instead of being poor, and renowned instead of being obscure as they were
before. Self-control in the midst of success is the noblest of all vitues, O king! For thou
hhast nothing to fear from enemies, while thou art commanding and leading sue an army as
this; but the visitations of the deity are unexpected, and consequently men can take no
‘precautions against them.”


Page 123, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXVIIL
ALEXANDER RESOLVES TO RETURN,
Wise Coenus had concluded this speech, loud applause was given to his words by those
Who were present; and the fact that many even shed tears, made it still more evident that 3
they were disinclined to incur further hazards, and that return would be delightful to them.
‘Alexander then broke up the conference, being annoyed at the freedom of speech in which
‘Coenus indulged, and the hesitation displayed by the other officers. But the next day he
called the same men together again in wrath, and told them that he intended to advance
farther, but would not force any Macedonian to accompany him against his will; that he
would have those only who followed their king of their own accord; and that those who
Wished to return home were at liberty to return and carry back word to their telations that
they were come back, having deserted theit king in the midst of his enemies. Having said
this, he retired into his tent, and did not admit any of the Companions on that day, or until
the third day from that, waiting to see if any change would occur in the minds of the
Macedonians and Grecian allies, as is wont to bappen, as a general rule among a crowd of
soldiers, rendering them more disposed to obey. But on the contrary, when there was a
profound silence throughout the camp, and the soldiers were evidently annoyed at his wrath,
Without being at all changed by it, Plolemy, son of Lagus, says that he none the less offered
sacrifice there for the passage of the river, but the victims were unfavourable to him when
he sacrificed. Then indeed he collected the oldest of the Companions and especially those
who were friendly to him, and as all things indicated the advisability of returning, he made
known to the army that he had resolved to march back agai.
CHAPTER XXIX.
ALEXANDER RECROSSES THE HYDRAOTES AND ACESINES,

‘TuEN they shouted as a mixed multitude would shout when rejoicing: and most of them
shed tears of inv Some of them even anmmached the roval cont emi nraved for many 31


Page 124, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘the gods who had led him so far as a conqueror, and also to serve as monuments of his own
labours.” When the altars were completed, he offered sacrifice upon them according to his
custom, and celebrated a gymnastic and equestrian contest. After adding the country as far
as the river Hyphasis to the dominion of Porus, he marched back to the Hydaotes. Having
crossed this river, he continued his return march to the Acesines, where he found the city
Which Hephaestion had been ordered to fortify, quite built. In this eity be settled as many of
the neighbouring people as volunteered t0 live in it, as well as those of the Grecian
mercenaries who were now unfit for military service; and then began to make the nevessary
preparations for a voyage down the river into the Great Sea. At tis time Arsaces, the ruler
‘of the land bordering on that of Abisares, and the brother of the latter, with his other
relations, came to Alexander, bringing the gifts which are reckoned most valuable among,
the Indians, including some elephants from Abisares, thirty in number. They declared that
Abisares himself was unable to come on account of illness: and with these men the
ambassadors sent by Alexander to Abisares agreed. Readily believing that such was the
case, he granted that prince the privilege of ruling his own country as his viceroy, and
placed Arsaces also under his power. After arranging what tribute they were to pay, he again
offered sacrifice near the river Acesines. He then erossed that river again, and came to the
Hiydaspes, where he employed the army in repairing the damage caused to the cities of
‘Nicaea and Bueephala by the rain, and put the other affairs of the country in order.


Page 124, Instance 1, Class: Text
ON NS
CHAPTER |
PREPARATIONS FOR & VOYAGE DOWN THE INDUS
AtexanpeR now resolved to sail down the Hydaspes to the Great Sea, after he had prepared
‘on the banks of that river many thirty-oared galleys and others with one and a half bank of
‘ars, as well as a number of vessels for conveying horses, and all the other things requisite
forthe easy conveyance of an army on a river. At first he thought he had discovered the
‘origin of the Nile, when he saw crocodiles in the river Indus, which he had seen in no other
river except the Nile,” as wel as beans growing near the banks of the Acesines ofthe same
kind as those which the Egyptian land produces. * This conjecture was confirmed when he
‘heard that the Acesines falls into the Indus. He thought the Nile rises somewhere or other in
India, and after flowing through an extensive tract of desert country loses the name of Indus
there: but afterwards when it begins to flow again through the inhabited land, it is called
Nile both by the Aethiopians ofthat district and by the Egyptians, and finally empties itself
into the Inner Sea.” In like manner Homer made the river Egypt give its name to the
country of Egypt.” Accordingly when he wrote to Olympias about the country of India,
after mentioning other things, he said that he thought he had discovered the sources of the
Nile, forming his conclusions about things so great from such small and trivial premises
However, when he had made a more careful inquiry into te facts relating tothe river Indus,
hie learned the following details from the natives:—That the Hydaspes unites its water with
the Acesines, asthe latter does with the Indus, and that they both yield up their names tothe
Indus: that the lasenamed river has two mouths, through which it discharges itself into the
Great Sea; but that it has no connection with the Egyptian country. He then removed from
the letter to his mother the part he had written about the Nile.”* Planning a voyage down
the rivers as far as the Great Sea, he ordered ships for this purpose to be prepared for him.


Page 125, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER IL
Voxace nown tir Hypasers.

‘Ar this time Coenus, who was one of Alexander's most faithful Companions, fel ill and
died, and the king buried him with as much magnificence as circumstances allowed. Then
collecting the Companions and the Indian envoys who had come to him, he appointed Porus
king ofthe part of India which had already been conquered, seven nations in all, containing 3!
more than 2,000 cities. After this he made the following distribution of his army.” With
himself he placed on board the ships all the shield-bearing guards, the archers, the
‘Agrianians, and the body-guard of cavalry.” Craterus led a part ofthe infantry and cavalry
‘along the right bank of the Hydaspes, while along the other bank Hephaestion advanced at
the head of the most numerous and efficient part of the army, including the elephants, which
now numbered about 200, These generals were ordered to march as quickly as possible to
the place where the palace of Sopeithes was situated,” and Philip, the viceroy of the
country beyond the Indus” extending to Bactria, was ordered to follow them with his
forees after an interval of three days. He sent the Nysaean cavalry back to Nysa.” The
whole of the naval force was under the command of Nearchus; but the pilot of Alexander's
ship was Onesiritus, who, inthe narrative which he composed of Alexander's campaigns,
falsely asserted that he was admiral, while in reality he was only a pilot.” According to
Ptolemy, son of Lagus, whose statements I chiefly follow, the entre number of the ships
was about eighty thirty-oared galleys; but the whole number of vessels, including the horse
‘transports and boats, and all the other river eraft, both those previously plying on the rivers
and those built at that time, fell not far short of 2,000."

x

CHAPTER IIL
Voxace bown tite Hypasois (continued),

Woe he had made all the necessary preparations the army began to embark atthe approach
of the dawn; while according to custom he offered sacrifice to the gods and to the river
Hydaspes, as the prophets directed.” When he had embarked he poured a libation into the
river from the prow of the ship out ofa golden goblet, invoking the Acesines as well as the
Hydaspes, because he had ascertained that it is the largest of al the rivers which unite with
‘the Hydaspes, and that their confluence was not far off. He also invoked the Indus, into
Which the Acesines flows afer its junction with the Hydaspes. Moreover he poured out
libations to his forefather Heracles, to Ammon,” and the other gods to whom he was in the
habit of sacrificing, and then he ordered the signal for starting seawards to be given with the
‘trumpet. As soon as the signal was given they commenced the voyage in regular order; for
directions had been given at what distance apart it was nevessary for the baggage vessels to
be arranged, as also for the vessels conveying the horses and forthe ships of war; so that
‘they might not fll foul of each other by sailing down the channel at random. He did not
allow even the fas-siling ships to get out of rank by outstripping the rest. The noise ofthe
rowing was never equalled on any other occasion, inasmuch as it proceeded from so many
ships rowed at the same time; also the shouting of the boatswains giving the time for
‘beginning and stopping the stroke ofthe oars, and the clamour of the rowers, when keeping
‘time all together with the dashing of the oars, made a noise like a battle-cry. The banks of 32


Page 125, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHAPTER IIL.
Vovace pow Te Hypasoes (continued),
Witew he had made all the necessary preparations the army began to embark atthe approach
of the dawn; while according to custom he offered sacrifice to the gods and to the river
Hydaspes, as the prophets directed.” When he had embarked he poured a libation into the
river from the prow of the ship out ofa golden goblet, invoking the Acesines as well asthe
Hydaspes, because he had ascertained that itis the largest of all the rivers which unite with
the Hydaspes, and that their confluence was not far off. He also invoked the Indus, into
which the Acesines flows after its junetion with the Hydaspes. Moreover he poured out
libations to his forefather Heracles, to Ammon,” and the other gods to whom he was in the
habit of sacrificing, and then he ordeted the signal for starting seawards to be given with the
‘trumpet. As soon as the signal was given they commenced the voyage in regular order; for
directions had been given at what distance apart it was necessary for the baggage vessels to
bbe arranged, as also for the vessels conveying the horses and for the ships of war; so that
they might not fall foul of each other by sailing down the channel at random, He did not
allow even the fast-sailing ships to get out of rank by outstripping the rest. The noise of the
rowing was never equalled on any other occasion, inasmuch as it proceeded from so many
ships rowed at the same time; also the shouting of the boatswains giving the time for
beginning and stopping the stroke of the oats, and the clamour of the rowers, when keeping
time all together with the dashing of the oars, made a noise like a battle-cry. The banks of


Page 126, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘the Indians who had already submitted to Alexander, and these came running down to the
river's bank and accompanied him singing their native songs. For the Indians have been
‘eminently fond of singing and dancing since the time of Dionysus and those who under his
bacehie inspiration taversed the land ofthe Indians with him.”
CHAPTER IV,
Vovace nown THe Hypaspes isto Thr ACESINES
SSaILING thus, he stopped on the third day at the spot where he had instructed Hephaestion
land Craterus to encamp on opposite banks of the river at the same place. Here he remained
‘two days, until Philip with the rest ofthe army came up with him. He then sent this general
With the men he brought with him to the river Acesines, with orders to march along the bank
of that river, He also sent Craterus and Hephaestion off again with instructions how they
Were to conduct the march. But he himself continued his voyage down the river Hydaspes,
the channel of which is nowhere les than twenty stades broad. Mooring his vessels near the
banks wherever he could, he received some of the Indians dwelling near into allegiance by
their voluntary surrender, while he reduced by force those who came into atrial of strength
With him. Then be sailed rapidly towards the country of the Mallians and Oxydracians,
having ascertained that these tribes were the most numerous and the most warlike of the
Indians in that region; and having been informed that they bad put their wives and children
for safety into their strongest cities, with the resolution of fighting a battle with him, be
made the voyage with the greater speed with the express design of attacking them before
they had arranged theie plans, and while there was still lack of preparation and a state of
confusion among them. Thence he made his second star, and on the fifth day reached the
jjunetion of the Hydaspes and Acesines, Where these rivers unite, one very narrow tiver is
formed out of the two; and on account ofits narrowness the current is swift. There are also
prodigious eddies in the whirling stream, and the water rises in waves and plashes
‘exceedingly, so that the noise of the swell of waters is distinctly heard by people while they
are stil far off These things had previously been reported to Alexander by the natives, and
bbe had told his soldiers; and yet, when his army approached the junction of the rivers, the
noise made by the stream produced so great an impression upon them that the sailors
stopped rowing, not from any word of command, but because the very boatswains who gave
the time to the rowers became silent from astonishment and stood aghast atthe noise.
CHAPTER V.
‘Vovsce now THe AcESINES.
Wie they came near the junction of the rivers, the pilots passed on the order that the men


Page 126, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘the river also, being in many places higher than the ships, and collecting the sound into a
narrow space, sent back to each other an echo Which was very much increased by its very
‘compression. In some parts too the groves of tees on each side of the river helped to swell
the sound, both from the solitude and the reverberation of the noise. The horses which were
Visible on the decks of the transports struck the barbarians who saw them with such surpise
that those of them who were present atthe starting of the fleet accompanied it @ long way
from the place of embarkation. For horses had never before been seen on board ships in the
country of India; and the natives did not call to mind that the expedition of Dionysus into
India Was a naval one. The shouting of the rowers and the noise of the rowing were heard by
the Indians who had already submitted to Alexander, and these came running down to the
river's bank and accompanied him singing their native songs. For the Indians have been
‘eminently fond of singing and dancing since the time of Dionysus and those who under his
bacehie inspiration taversed the land ofthe Indians with him.”


Page 127, Instance 0, Class: Text
whirled round by the current received no damage from the eddy, but the men who were on
‘board were thrown into disorder and fright. For being kept upright by the force of the stream
itself, these vessels settled again into the onward course. But the ships of war, being long,
did not emerge so scatheless from the whirling current, not being raised aloft in the same
Way as the others upon the plashing swell of water. These ships had two ranks of oars on
each side, the lower oars being only a litle out ofthe water. These vessels getting athyart in
the eddies, their oars could not be raised aloft in proper time and were consequently caught
by the water and came into collision with each other. Thus many ofthe ships were damaged;
‘wo indeed fell foul of each other and were destroyed, and many of those sailing in them
perished.” But when the river widened out, there the current was no longer so rapid, and
the eddies did not whit! round with so much violence. Alexander therefore mooted his feet
‘on the right bank, where there was a protection from the force of the stream and a roadstead
forthe ships. A certain promontory also in the river jutted out conveniently for collecting the
wrecks, He preserved the lives of the men who were still being conveyed upon them; and. 3
When he had repaired the damaged ships, he ordered Nearchus to sail down the river until he
reached the confines of the nation called Mallians. He himself made an inroad into the
territories of the barbarians who would not yield to him, and after preventing them from
suecouring the Mallians, he again formed a junction with the naval armament."
Heephaestion, Craterus, and Philip had already united their forees here. Alexander then
transported the elephants, the brigade of Polysperchon, the horse-archers, and Philip with
his army, across the river Hydaspes, and instructed Craterus to lead them. He sent Nearchus
With the fleet with orders to set sail three days before the army started. He divided the rest
(of his army into three parts, and ordered Hephaestion to go five days in advance, so that if
any should flee before the men under his own command and go rapidly forward they might
fall in with Hephaestion’s brigade and thus be captured. He also gave a part of the army to
Prolemy, son of Lagus, with orders to follow him after the lapse of three days, so that all
those who fled from him and turned back again might fallin with Ptolemy's brigade, He
‘ordered those in advance to wait, when they artived at the confluence of the rivers Acesines
land Hydraotes, until he himself came up; and he instructed Craterus and Ptolemy also to
form a junetion with him atthe same place.
CHAPTER VL.
CAMPAIGN AGAINST-THE MALLIANS.


Page 127, Instance 1, Class: Text
CCanPAtG AGAINST THE MALLIANS.
He then took the shield-bearing guards, the bowmen, the Agrianians, Peithon’s brigade of
men, who were called foot Companions, all the horse bowmen and half the cavalry
‘Companions, and marched through a tract of country destitute of water against the Mallians,
tribe of the independent Indians."*! On the first day he encamped near a small piece of
Water which was about 100 stades distant from the river Acesines. Having dined there and
caused his army to rest a short time, he ordered every man to fill whatever vessel he had
With water, Affer travelling the remaining part of that day and all the ensuing night a
distance of about 400 stades, he at daybreak reached the city into which many of the
Mallians had fled for refuge. Most of them were outside the eity and unarmed, supposing
that Alexander would never come against them through the waterless country. It was evident
that he led his army by this route for this very reason, because it was dificult 0 lead an
army this way, and consequently it appeared incredible to the enemy'that he would lead his
forces in this direction. He therefore fell upon them unexpectedly, and killed most of them
Without their even turning to defend themselves, since they were unarmed. He cooped the
rest up in the city, and posted his eavary all round the wall because the phalanx of infantry
hhad not yet" come up with him, He thus made use of his cavalry in place ofa stockade. As


Page 128, Instance 0, Class: Text
and Alexander himself appeared now in this part of the action and now in that, the citadel
Was taken By storm, an all the men who ha fled ino it for reige were killed, 10 the
humier of 2000, Pesacas alo ached the it to which he fa been despatched nd
found it deserted; Dut learing that the inhabitants had fed fom not Tons before he made
2 Toreed mach onthe tack of he fugitives. The light armed toops followed tm as quickly
fs they couldn fot, 50 tat he took and massacred as man ofthe fives as could not
usp him and le fr safety into the ver mares,
CHAPTER VIL.

[Artem dining and casing bis men to rest unl the first watch of the night, Alexander
Inached forvard; and tavelling a reat distance tough the night be ative atthe iver
Hydraotes" at daybreak. There he ascertained that most of the Mallians had already
ford, he kept closeup with those who had outstripped him in thei teat. Many also of
by nature and made moreso by frictions. When te infty reached hin Alexander
brigade of infantry and two regiments of cavalry. These, atackng the ple ook it at The
fist asus and made Saves ofall hose who had led ihe fo safety at east a6 many oF
the camp. Alexander in person led his forces against a certain city of the Brachmans,”
because he ascertained tht some of the Malins had fled fo refuge ino fe When he
reached ithe led his phalans in served ranks close upto the wall on all sides, The enemy
Scving tha their walls were being undemined, and being themselves repulsed by the
mses, abandoned the wall, and having ed for safety ito the eas, bepan to defend
trawing together ino a else body drove some of them bak and lle fveand-wenty of
thom i ther reteat Hereupon Atexander onde the scaling adders foe placed azatst
the citadel on al ies, and the wal fo be undermined and When one of the towers, being
Undermine, fll dove, and a pat ofthe wal between two towers was breached, ad his
tan fo scale the wall and get hol of The other Macedonians seing im Were ashamed
Mere killed: but mes of them were ssi fgting_ About 5000 in all were killed: and on


Page 128, Instance 1, Class: Text
soon as the infantry arrived, he sent Perdiceas with his own cavalry regiment and that of
CCitus, as well as the Agrianians, against another city of the Mallians, whither many of the
Indians of that region had fled for refuge. He ordered Perdiecas to blockade the men in the
city, but not to commence the action until he himself should arrive, so that none might
‘escape from this city and carry news tothe rest of the barbarians that Alexander was already 3
approaching. He then began to assault the wall; but the barbarians abandoned it, finding that
they were no longer able to defend it, since many had been killed in the capture, and others
had been rendered unfit for fighting on account of their wounds. Fleeing for refuge into the
citadel, they defended themselves for some time from a position commanding from its
height and difficult of access. But as the Macedonians pressed on vigorously from all sides,
‘and Alexander himself appeared now in this part of the action and now in that, the citadel
Was taken by storm, and all the men who had fled into it for refuge were killed, to the
number of 2,000, Perdiceas also reached the city to which he had been despatched and
found it deserted; but learning thatthe inhabitants had fled from it not long before, he made
a forced march on the tack of the fugitives. The light-armed troops followed him as quickly
as they could on foot, so that he took and massacred as many of the fugitives as could not
‘outstrip him and fle for safety into the river-marshes,


Page 129, Instance 0, Class: Text
EPEAT OF THE MOALLIANS AT THE RIVER HYDRAQTES.
Havin remained there one day to give his army rest, he advanced on the morrow against
the other Mallians. He found the cities abandoned, and ascertained that the men had fled
into the desert. There he again gave the army one day's rest, and on the next day sent
Peithon and Demetrius the cavalry general back to the river, in command of their own
‘oops, giving them in addition a8 many batlalions of the lightarmed infantry as were
sulflicient forthe enterprise. Their instructions were to go along the bank of the river, and if
they met any of those who had fled for safety into the woods, of which there were many
near the river’s bank, o kill all who refused to surrender. Peithon and Demetrius captured
many of these in the woods and killed them. He himself led his forces against the largest
City of the Mallians, whither he was informed many from the other cities had taken refuge.
But ths also the Indians abandoned when they heaed that Alexander was marching against
it Crossing the river Hydraotes, they remained with their forees drawn up upon its bank,
because it was high, and they thought they could obstruct Alexander's passage. When he
hheard this, he took all the cavalry which he had with him, and went to the part of the river
Where he was informed that the Mallians had drawn themselves up for battle; and the
infantry was ordered to follow. When he reached the river and beheld the enemy drawn up
‘on the opposite bank, he made no delay, but instantly plunged into the ford with the cavalry
alone, When they saw that he was now in the middle of the river, though they were drawn 22
up ready for battle, they withdrew from the bank with all speed; and Alexander followed
‘them with his cavalry alone. But when the Indians perceived only cavalry, they wheeled
round and fought with desperate valour, being about $0,000 in number. When Alexander
perceived that their phalanx was densely compact, and that his own infantry was absent, he
rode right round their army and made charges upon them, but did not come to close fighting
With them. Meanwhile the archers, the Agrianians and the other battalions of light-armed
infantry, being picked men whom he was leading with him, arrived, and his phalanx of
infantry was seen not far off. As all kinds of danger were threatening them at once, the
Indians now wheeled round again and began to flee with headlong speed into the strongest
Of their adjacent cites; but Alexander followed them and slew many, while those who
‘escaped into the city were cooped up within it. At first indeed he surrounded the city with
the horse-soldiers as they came up from the march; but when the infantry arrived, he
‘encamped all round the wall for this day, because not much of it was left for making the
assault, and his army had been exhausted, the infantry by the long march, and the cavalry by
‘the uninterrupted pursuit, and especially by the passage of the river.

CHAPTER IX.
‘STORMING OF THE MALLIAN STRONGHOLD.
(On the following day, dividing the army into two parts, he himself assaulted the wall atthe
head of one, and Perdiccas led on the other. Upon ths the Indians did not wait to receive the
attack of the Macedonians, but abandoned the walls of the city and fled for safety into the


Page 129, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘STORMING OF THE MALLIAN STRONGHOLD.
(On the following day, dividing the army into two parts, he himself assaulted the wall atthe
head of one, and Perdiccas led on the other. Upon ths the Indians did not wait to receive the
attack of the Macedonians, but abandoned the walls of the city and fled for safety into the
citadel, Alexander and his troops therefore split open a small gate, and got within the city
long before the others; for those who had been put under Perdiccas were behind time,
having experienced difficulty in scaling the walls, as most of them did not bring ladders,
‘thinking that the city had been captured, when they observed thatthe walls were deserted by
the defenders. But when the citadel was seen to be still in the possession of the enemy, and
many of them were observed drawn up in front of it t0 repel attacks, some of the
Macedonians tried to force an entry by undermining the wall, and others by placing scaling
ladders against it, wherever it was practicable to do so. Alexander, thinking that the men


Page 130, Instance 0, Class: Text
it against the wall, and began to mount it, crouching under his shield. After him mounted
Peucestas, the man who carried the sacred shield which Alexander took from the temple of
the Trojan Athena and used to keep with him, and have itcaried before him in al his
battles." After Peucestas, by the same ladder ascended Leonatus the confidential body-
‘ard: and up another ladder went Abreas, one ofthe soldiers who received double pay for
distinguished serves.” The king was now near the batlement of the wal, and leaning his
shield agains it was pushing some of the Indians within the fot, and had cleared that part of
the wall, by killing others with hs sword, The shied-bearing guards becoming very anxious
for the king's safety, pushed each other with ardour up the same ladder and broke i; s0 that
those who were already mounting fell dwn and made the ascent impracticable fr the rst
Alexander then, standing upon the wall, was being assailed all ound from the adjacent
towers: for none of the Indians dared approach him. He was also being assailed by the men
inthe city, who Wee throwing darts at him from no great distance: for a mound of earth
happened fo have been heaped up there opposite the wall, Alexander was conspicuous both
by the brightness of his weapons and by his extraordinary display of audacity. He therefore
perceived that if he remained where he was, he would be incurring danger without being
able to perform anything at all worthy of consideration; but if he leaped down within the
fort he might perhaps by this very act strike the Indians with teror, and if he did not, but
should only thereby be incurring danger, at any rate he would die not ignobly after
performing great deeds of valour worthy of recollection by men of after times." Forming
this resolution, he leaped down fom the wall into the citadel; where, supporting himself
‘against the wall, he stuck with his sword and killed some ofthe Indians who came to close
{quarters with him, including their leader, who rushed upon him too boldly. Another man
who approached him he kept in check by hurling a stone at him, and a third a hike manne.
“Those who advanced nearer to him he again kept off with his sword; so that the barbarians
were no longer willing to approach him, but standing round him cast at him from all sides
whatever any one happened to have or could get hold ofa the time,
CHAPTER X.
Aurxanpen Danarousty WOUNDED.

Mraxrie Peucestas and Abseas, the soldier ented t double pay, and after them
Leonnatus, being the only men who happened t have scaled the wall before the ladders
were broken, had leaped down and were fighting in front of the king. Abreas, the man
ented to double pay, fell there, being shot with an artow in the forehead. Alexander
himself also was wounded with an areow under the breast through his breastplate into the
chest, so that Polemy says air was breathed out from the wound together withthe blood.
But although he was faint with exhaustion, he defended himself, as long as his blood was
sill warm. But the blood steaming out copiously and without ceasing at every expiration of
‘breath, he was seized with a dizziness and swooning, and bending over fell upon his shield
“Air he had fallen Peucestas defended hin, holding over him in front the sacred shield
‘brought from Troy; and on the other side he was defended by Leonnatus. But both these
men Were themselves wounded, and Alexander was now nearly faiating away ftom loss of
blood. For the Macedonians had experienced great difiulty in the assault also on this


Page 130, Instance 1, Class: Text
ALEXANDER DANGEROUSLY WOUNDED.
Meaxmime Peucestas and Abreas, the soldier entitled t0 double pay, and after them
Leonnatus, being the only men who happened © have sealed the wall before the ladders
were broken, had leaped down and were fighting in front of the king. Abreas, the man
entitled to double pay, fell there, being shot with an arrow in the forehead. Alexander
himself also was wounded with an arrow under the breast through his breastplate into the
chest, so that Ptolemy says air was breathed out from the wound together with the blood.
But although he was faint with exhaustion, he defended himself, as long as his blood was
still warm, But the blood streaming out copiously and without ceasing at every expiration of
breath, he was seized with a dizziness and swooning, and bending over Fell upon his shield.
‘Afier he had fallen Peucestas defended him, holding over him in front the sacred shield
brought from Troy; and on the other side he was defended by Leonnatus. But both these
men were themselves wounded, and Alexander was now nearly fainting away from loss of
blood. For the Macedonians had experienced great difficulty in the assault also on this
account, because those who saw Alexander being shot at upon the wall and then leaping
down into the citadel within, in their ardour arising from fear lest their king should meet
With any mishap by recklessly exposing himself to danger, broke the ladders. Then some
‘began 10 devise one plan and others another to mount upon the wall, as well as they could in
their state of embarrassment, some fixing pegs into the wall, which was made of earth, and
suspending themselves from these hoisted themselves up with difficulty by their means;


Page 131, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘the time; while others, inasmuch as a gap had been made in the gate, put their shoulders
under it and forced it into the space inside the wall, and thus lid the citadel open in that
quarter.
CHAPTER XI.
‘Aurxanpen WounneD,

Hine rox some of them began to kill the Indians ll of whom they slew, sparing wot even @
woman oF child. Others carried off the king, who was lying ina faint condition, upon his
Shield; and they could not yet tll whether he was likey to survive. Some authors have
stated that Crtodemus, a physician of Cos, an Asclepiad by bie,” made an incision into
the injured part and drew the weapon out ofthe wound. Other authors say that as there was
no physician present at the critical moment, Perdiccas, the confidential body-guard, at
‘Alexander's bidding, made an incision with bis sword ino the wounded part and removed
‘the weapon. On its removal there was such a copious effusion of blood that Alexander
swooned again; andthe effect ofthe swoon was, thatthe effusion of blood was stanched.”*
Many other things concerning this catasteophe have been recorded by the historians; and
Rumour having received the statements as they were given by the first falsifiees ofthe facts,
sill preserves them even to our times, nor wil she desist from handing the falsehoods on to
‘others also in regular succession, unless a stop is putt it by this history” For example, the
‘common account is, that this calamity befell Alexander among the Oxyracians; whereas, i
really occurred among the Mallians, an independent tribe of Indians; the city belonged to 3
the Mallians,”" and the men who wounded him were Mallians. These people, indeed, had
resolved to join their forces with the Oxyedracians and then to make a desperate struggle: but
hh forestaled them by marching against them through the waterless county, before any aid
could reach them fom the Oxydracians, or they could render any help to the latter
Moreover, the common account is, thatthe last battle fought with Darius was near Arbea, at
Which bat he fled and did not desist from flight until he was arrested by Bessus and pul to
death at Alexander's approach; just as the battle before this was at Isus, and the frst
‘cavalry batle near the Granicus. The cavalry battle did really take place near the Granicus,
andthe next battle with Darius near Issus; but those authors who make Abela most distant
say that itis 600° stades distant from the place where the last batle between Alexander
and Datius was fought, while those who make it least distant, say that itis 500 stades off.
Moreover, Ptolemy and Acistobulus say thatthe bate was fought at Gaugamela near the
river Bumodus. But as Gaugamela was not a city, but only a large village, the place is not
celebrated, nor is the name pleasing tothe eat; hence, it seems to me, that Abel, being a
‘ity, has caried off the glory of the great battle. But if is necessary to consider that this
engagement took place near Arbela, being in reality so far distant feom it, then itis
allowable to say thatthe sea-batle fought at Salamis occurred neat the isthmus” of the
Corinthians, and that fought at Artemisium, in Euboea, oecurted neae Aegina or Sunium,
Moreover, in regard to those who covered Aiexander with thie shields i his peril all agree
that Peucestas di so; but they no longer agree in regard to Leonnatus of Abreas, the Soldier
in receipt of double pay for his distinguished services. Some say that Alexander, having
received a blow on the head with a piece of wood, fell down ina fit of dizziness: and that


Page 131, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘others got up by mounting one upon the other. The first man who got up threw himself
down from the wall into the city, and so on in succession; and when they saw the king lying
there on the ground they all raised a loud lamentation and how! of grief. Now ensued a
desperate conflict around his fallen body, one Macedonian after another holding his shield
in font of him, In the meantime some of the soldiers having shivered in pieces the bar by
Which the gate in the space of wall between the towers was secured, entered the city a few at
the time; while others, inasmuch as a gap had been made in the gate, put their shoulders
under it and forced it into the space inside the wall, and thus laid the eitadel open in that
‘quarter.


Page 132, Instance 0, Class: Text
ASMUETY OF THE SOLDIERS ANOUT ALEXANDER.
Witte Alexander was remaining in this place until his wound was cured, the first news
Which reached the camp from which he had set out to attack the Mallians was that he had 3
died of the wound; and at frst there arose a Sound of lamentation from the entire army, as
‘one man handed the rumour on to another. When they ceased their lamentation, they became
spiritess, and felt perplexed as to the man who was to become the leader of the army; for
many of the officers seemed to have stood in equal rank and merit, both in the opinion of
‘Alexander and in that of the Macedonians. They were also in a state of perplenity how to get
back in safety to their own country, being quite enclosed by so many warlike nations, some
‘of whom had aot yet submitted, and who they conjectured would fight stoutly for their
freedom; while others would no doubt revolt as soon as they were relieved of their fear of
‘Alexander. Besides, they seemed at that time to be in the midst of impassable rivers, and all
‘things appeared to them uncertain and impracticable now that they were bereft of Alexander.
But when at length the news came that he was still alive they with difficulty acquiesced in
it; and did not yer believe that he was likely to survive. Even when a letter came from the
kking, saying that he was coming down to the camp in a short time, this did not appear to
most of them worthy of eredit, on account of theit excessive fear; for they conjectured that
the leter was concocted by his confidential body-guards and generals,
CHAPTER XIIL.
JOY OF THE SOLDIERS Ar ALEXANDER’S RECOVERY,

Witex Alexander became acquainted with this, for fear some attempt ata revolution might
bbe made in the army, he had himself conveyed, as soon as it could be done with safety, to
the bank of the river Hydraotes, and placed in a boat to sail down the river. For the camp
Was at the confluence of the Hydraotes and Acesines, where Hephaestion was atthe head of 3
the army, and Nearchus of the fleet. When the ship bearing the king approached the camp,
he ordered the tent covering to be removed from the stern, that he might be visible to all.
But they were still incredulous, thinking, forsooth, that Alexander’s corpse was being
conveyed on the vessel; until at length he stretched out his hand to the multitude, when the
ship was nearing the bank. Then the men raised a cheer, lifting their hands, some towards
the sky and others to the king himself. Many even shed involuntary teats atthe unexpected
sight. Some of the shield-bearing guards brought a litter for him when he was conveyed out
‘of the ship; but he ordered them to fetch his horse. When he was seen again mounting his
horse, the whole army re-echoed with loud clapping of hands, so thatthe banks of the river
fand the groves near them reverberated with the sound. On approaching his tent he
dismounted from his horse, so that he might be seen walking. Then the men came near,


Page 132, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘opinion, the greatest error made by those who have written the history of Alexander is the
following. There are some who have recorded that Ptolemy, son of Lagus, in company
‘with Peucestas, mounted the ladder with Alexander; that Ptolemy’ held his shield over him
‘when he lay wounded, and that he was called Soter (the preserver) on that account.” And
yet Ptolemy himself has recorded that he was not even present at this engagement, but was
fighting battles against other barbarians at the head of another army. Let me mention these
facts asa digression from the main narrative, so thatthe correct account of such great deeds
and calamities may not be a matte of indifference to men of the future.”

CHAPTER XIL

ANMIETY OF THE SOLDIERS ADOUT ALEXANDER.

Wine Alexander was remaining in this place until his wound was cured, the first news
‘hich reached the camp from which he had set out to attack the Mallians was that he had 3
died of the Wound; and at frst there arose a sound of lamentation from the entire army, as
‘one man handed the rumour on to another. When they’eeased ther lamentation, they became
spiritless, and felt perplexed as to the man who was to become the leader of the army: for
many of the officers seemed to have stood in equal rank and merit, both in the opinion of
‘Alexander and in that of the Macedonians. They were also in a state of perplexity how to get
‘back in safety to their own country, being quite enclosed by so many warlike nations, some
‘of whom had not yet submitted, and who they conjectured would fight stoutly for their
freedom; while others would no doubt revolt a soon as they were relieved of their fear of
‘Alexander. Besides, they seemed at that time to bein the midst of impassable rivers, and all
‘things appeared to them uncertain and impracticable now that they were bereft of Alexander.
But when at length the news came that he was sil alive, they with difficulty acquiesced in
it; and did not yet believe that he was likely to survive. Even when a letter eame from the
king, saying that he was coming down to the camp in a short time, this did not appear to
most of them worthy of credit, on account of their excessive fear; for they conjectured that
the letter was concocted by his confidential body-guards and generals,

CHAPTER XIIL


Page 132, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHAPIBER All.
JOY OF THE SOLDIERS Ar ALEXANDER’S RECOVERY,
Witex Alexander became acquainted with this, for fear some attempt ata revolution might
bbe made in the army, he had himself conveyed, as soon as it could be done with safety, to
the bank of the river Hydraotes, and placed in a boat to sail down the river. For the camp
Was at the confluence of the Hydraotes and Acesines, where Hephaestion was atthe head of
the army, and Nearchus of the fleet. When the ship bearing the king approached the camp,
he ordered the tent covering to be removed from the stern, that he might be visible to all.
But they were still incredulous, thinking, forsooth, that Alexander’s corpse was being
conveyed on the vessel; until at length he stretched out his hand to the multitude, when the
ship was nearing the bank. Then the men raised a cheer, lifting their hands, some towards
the sky and others to the king himself. Many even shed involuntary teats atthe unexpected
sight. Some of the shield-bearing guards brought a litter for him when he was conveyed out
‘of the ship; but he ordered them to fetch his horse. When he was seen again mounting his
horse, the whole army re-echoed with loud clapping of hands, so thatthe banks of the river
fand the groves near them reverberated with the sound. On approaching his tent he
dismounted from his horse, so that he might be seen walking. Then the men came near,


Page 132, Instance 3, Class: Text
Ptolemy, son of Lagus, says that he received only this wound in the chest. However, in my
‘opinion, the greatest error made by those who have written the history of Alexander is the
following. There are some who have recorded that Ptolemy, son of Lagus, in company
With Peucestas, mounted the ladder with Alexander; that Prolemy held his shield over him
When he lay wounded, and that he was called Soter (the preserver) on that account.”* And
yet Ptolemy himself has recorded that he was not even present at this engagement, but was
fighting battles against other barbarians at the head of another army. Let me mention these
facts asa digression from the main narrative, so thatthe correct account of such great deeds
and calamities may not be a matte of indifference to men of the future.”


Page 133, Instance 0, Class: Text
impetuosity in battle and his passion for glory. Nearchus also says that a certain old
Boeotian, whose name he does not mention, perceiving that Alexander was offended at the
ceensures of his friends and was looking sullenly at them, came near him, and speaking inthe
Boeotian dialect, sai: “O Alexander, itis the part of heroes to perform great deeds!” and
repeated a certain Iambic verse, the purport of which is, that the man who performs
anything great is destined also to suffer’ This man was not only acceptable to Alexander
atthe time, but was afterwards received into is more intimate acquaintance.
CHAPTER XIV.
Voxacr Down thr HypeAoTs aND ACESINES INTO THE INDUS.

Ar this time arrived envoys from the Malians who still survived, offering the submission of
‘the nation; also from the Oxydracians came both the leaders of the eties and the governors
‘of the provinces, accompanied by the other 150 most notable men, with full powers to make
a treaty, bringing the gifts which are considered most valuable among the Indians, and also,
like the Mallians, offering the submission of their nation. They said that their eror in not
hhaving sent an embassy to him before was pardonable, because they excelled other races in
the desire to be fee and independent, and their freedom had been secure from the time
Dionysus came into India until Alexander eame; but if it seemed good to him, inasmuch as
there was a general report that he also was sprung from gods, they were willing to receive 3°
Whatever viceroy he might appoint, pay the tribute decreed by him, and give him as many
hostages as he might demand. He therefore demanded the thousand best men of the nation,
whom he might hold as hostages, if he pleased; and if not, that he might keep them as
Soldiers in his army, until he had finished the war which he was waging against the other
Indians. They accordingly selected the thousand best and tallest men of their number, and
sent them to him, together with 500 chariots and charioteers, though these were not
demanded. Alexander appointed Philip viceroy over these people and the Mallians who
were still surviving. He sent back the hostages to them, but retained the chariots. When he
had satisfactorily arranged these matters, since many vessels had been built during the delay
arising from his being wounded,” he embarked 1,700 of the cavalry Companions, as many
Of the light-armed troops as before, and 10,000 infantry, and sailed a short distance down
the river Hydraotes. But when that river mingled its waters with the Acesines, the latter
tiving its name to the united stream, he continued his voyage down the Acesines, until he
reached its junction with the Indus. For these four large rivers, which are all navigable,
discharge theie water into the river Indus, though each does not retain its distinet name. For
the Hydaspes discharges itself into the Acesines, and after the junction the whole stream
forms what is called the Acesines. Again this same river unites with the Hydaotes, and after
absorbing this river, still retains its own name. After this the Acesines takes in the Hyphasis,
‘and finally flows into the Indus under its own name; but after the junction it yields its name
to the Indus. From this point I have no doubt that the Indus proceeds 100 stades,”" and
‘perhaps more, before it is divided so as to form the Delta; and there it spreads out more like


Page 133, Instance 1, Class: Text
some on one side, others on the other, some touching his hands, others his knees, others

‘only his elothes. Some only came close to get a sight of him, and went away having chanted
his praise, while others threw garlands upon him, or the lowers which the country of India
supplied at that season of the year. Nearchus says that some of his friends incurred his
displeasure, reproaching him for exposing himself to danger in the front of the army in
battle; which they said was the duty of a private soldier, and not that of the general." It
seems to me that Alexander was offended at these remarks, because be knew that they were
correct, and that he deserved the censure. However, ike those who are mastered by any
other pleasure, he had not sufficient self-control to keep aloof from danger, through his
impetuosity in battle and his passion for glory. Nearchus also says that a certain old
Boeotian, whose name he does not mention, perceiving that Alexander was offended at the
ceensures of his friends and was looking sullenly at them, came near him, and speaking inthe
Boeotian dialect, sai: “O Alexander, itis the part of heroes to perform great deeds!” and
repeated a certain Iambic verse, the purport of which is, that the man who performs
anything great is destined also to suffer’ This man was not only acceptable to Alexander
atthe time, but was afterwards received into is more intimate acquaintance.


Page 134, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘VOYAGE DOWN THE INDUS TO THE LAND OF MUSICANUS.
‘Ture, at the confluence of the Acesines and Indus, he waited until Perdiceas with the army’
arrived, after having routed on his way the independent tribe of the Abastanians.”*
Meantime, he was joined by other thiety-oared galleys and trading vessels which had been
built for him among the Xathrians, another independent tribe of Indians who had yielded to
him. From the Ossadians, who were also an independent tribe of Indians, came envoys to
offer the submission oftheir nation. Having fixed the confluence of the Acesines and Indus
asthe limit of Philip's viceroyalty he left with him all the Thracians and as many men ftom
the infantry regiments as appeared to him sufficient to provide for the security of the
country. He then ordered a city to be founded there at the very junction of the two rivers,
expecting that it would become large and famous among men."° He also ordered a
dockyard to be made there. At this time the Bactrian Oxyarts, father of his wife Roxana, 3
ceame to him, to whom he gave the vieeroyalty over the Parapamisadians, after dismissing
the former viceroy, Tiryaspes, because he was reported to be exercising his authority
improperly.” Then he transported Craterus with the main body of the army and the
elephants to the left bank of the river Indus, both because it seemed easier for a heavy-
armed force to march along that side of the river, and the tribes dwelling near were not quite
friendly. He himself sailed down to the capital of the Sosdians; where he fortified another
city, made another dockyard, and repaired his shattered vessels. He appointed Oxyartes,
Viceroy, and Peithon general of the land extending from the confluence of the Indus and
‘Acesines as far asthe sea, together with al the coastland of India, He then again despatched
‘Craterus with his army through the country of the Arachotians and Drangians; and himself
sailed down the river into the dominions of Musicanus, which was reported t0 be the most
‘prosperous part of India He advanced against this king because he had not yet come to meet
him to offer the submission of himself and his land, nor had he sent envoys to seek his
alliance. He had not even sent him the gifts which were suitable for a great king, or asked
‘any favour from him. He accelerated his voyage down the river to such a degree that he
succeeded in reaching the confines ofthe land of Musicanus before he had even heard that
‘Alexander had started against him. Musicanus was so greatly alarmed that he went as fast as
he could to meet him, bringing with him the gifts valued most highly among the Indians,
and taking all his elephants. He offered to surrender both his nation and himself, atthe same
time acknowledging his error, which was the most effectual way with Alexander for any one
to get what he requested. Accordingly for these considerations Alexander granted him an
indemnity for his offences. He also granted him the privilege of ruling the city and county,
both of which Alexander admired, Craterus was directed to fortify the citadel in the capital:
Which was done while Alexander was still present. A gartison was also placed init, because
hie thought the place suitable for Keeping the eircumjacent tribes in subjection.
CHAPTER XVI
CAMPAIGN AGAINST OXYCANUS AND SAMBLS.
“Tur he took the archers, Agrianians, and cavalry sailing with him, and marched against the


Page 134, Instance 1, Class: Text
CAMPAIGN AGAINST OXYCANUS AND SAMBLS.
‘Tue he took the archers, Agrianians, and cavalry sailing with him, and marched against the
‘governor of that country, whose name was Oxycanus,”* because he neither came himself
nor did envoys come from him, to offer the surrender of himself and his land. At the very
first assault he took by storm the two largest cites under the rule of Oxycanus; in the second
‘of which that prince himself was captured. The booty he gave to his army, but the elephants
he led with himself. The other cities in the same land surrendered to him as he advanced,


Page 135, Instance 0, Class: Text
which the country of Sambus held as its metropolis, the name of which was Sindimana, the
{gates were thrown open to im at his approach, and the relations of Sambus reckoned up his
money and went out to meet him, taking with them the elephants also. They assured him
that Sambus had fled, not from any hostile feeling towards Alexander, but fearing on
account of the pardon of Musicanus."” He also captured another city which had revolted at
this time, and slew as many of the Brachmans" as had been instigators ofthis revolt. These
men are the philosophers of the Indians, of whose philosophy, if such it may be called, 1
shall give an aecount in my book descriptive of India.”

(CHAPTER XVIL
Musicants EXECUTED. CAPTURE OF PATALA

Mraxtim: he was informed that Musicanus had revolted. He despatched the viceroy,
Peithon, son of Agenor, with a sufficient army against him, while he himself marched
‘against the cities which had been put under the rule of Musicanus. Some of these he razed to
‘the ground, reducing the inhabitants to slavery and into others he introduced garrisons and
fortified the citadel. After accomplishing this, be returned to the camp and fleet. By this
time Musicanus had been captured by Peithon, who was bringing him to Alexander. The
{King ordered him tobe hanged in his own country, and with him as many ofthe Brachmans
4s had instigated him to the revolt, Then came 0 him the ruler of the land of the
Patalians,”” who said that the Delta formed by the river Indus was still larger than the 4
Egyptian Delia.” This man surrendered to him the whole of his own land and entrusted
‘oth himself and his property to him. Alexander sent him avvay again in possession of his
‘own dominions, with instructions to provide whatever was needful for the reception of the
farmiy, He then Sent Craterus into Carmania with the brigades of Attalus, Meleagee, and
“Antigenes, some of the archers, and as many of the Companions and other Macedonians a,
‘being now unfit for military service, he was despatching to Macedonia by the route through
the lands ofthe Arachotians and Zarangians. To Craterus he also gave the duty of leading
the elephants; but the est of the army, except the part of it which was sailing with himself
down to the sea, he put under the command of Hephaestion. He transported Peithon with the
‘eavalry-lancers and Agrinians tothe opposite bank of the Indus, not the one along which
Hephaestion was abou to lead the army. Peithon was ordered to collect men to colonize the
cities which had just been fortified, and to form a junction with the king at Patala, after
hhaving settled the affairs of the Indians of that region, if they attempted any revolutionary
proceedings. On the thd day of his voyage, Alexander was informed that the governor of
the Pataians"”® had collected most of his subjects and was going away by stealth, having
left his land deserted. For this reason Alexander sailed down the river with greater speed
than before”; and when he arrived at Patala, he found both the country and the city
deserted by the inhabitants and tillers ofthe soil He however despatched the lightest oops 348
in his army in pursuit ofthe fugitives; and when some of them were captured, he sent them
‘away tothe rest, bidding them be of good courage and fetun, for they might inhabit he city
‘and till the country as before. Most of them accordingly returned,


Page 135, Instance 1, Class: Text
nor did any one turn to resist him; so cowed in spirit” had all the Indians now become at
the thought of Alexander and his fortune. He then marched back against Sambus, whom he
hhad appointed viceroy of the mountaineer Indians and who was reported to have fled,
‘because he leamed that Musicanus had been pardoned by Alexander and was ruling over his
‘own land. For he was at war with Musicanus. But when Alexander approached the city 3
Which the country of Sambus held as its metropolis, the name of which was Sindimana, the
‘gates were thrown open to im at his approach, and the relations of Sambus reckoned up his
money and went out 10 meet him, taking with them the elephants also. They assured him
that Sambus had fled, not from any hostile feeling towards Alexander, but fearing on
account of the pardon of Musicanus.”” He also captured another city which had revolted at
this time, and slew as many of the Brachmans™ as had been instigators of tis revolt. These
men ate the philosophers of the Indians, of whose philosophy, if such it may be called, 1
shall give an account in my book descriptive of India.”


Page 136, Instance 0, Class: Text
Vowscit Dow 1H INDUS nro THE SEA.
Wane their vessels were moored her, the phenomenon of the ebb and flow of the tide in
the great sea occured, so that their ships were left upon dry ground, This caused Alexander
and his companions no small alarm, inasmuch as they were previously quite unacquainted
With i. But they were much more alarmed when, the time coming round again, the water
‘approached and the hulls of the vessels were raised alof.”* The ships which it caught
settled in the mud were raised aloft without any damage, and floated again without
receiving any injury; but those that had been left on the drier land and had not a firm
settlement, when an immense compact wave advanced, ether fll foul of each other of were
dashed against the land and thus shattered to pieces. When Alexander had repaired these
vessels as well as his circumstances permitted, he sent some men oa in advance down the
river in two boats to explore the island at which the natives said he must moor his vessel in
his voyage to the sea, They told him that the name ofthe island was Cilla” As he was
informed that there were harbours inthis island, that it was a large one and had plenty of
water init, he made the rest of his flet putin there; but he himself with the best sailing
ships advanced beyond, to see ifthe mouth of the river afforded an easy voyage out ito the
‘open sea, After advancing about 200 stades from the first island, they descried another
which was quite out in the sea. Then indeed they returned to the island in the siver, and
having moored his vessels nea the extremity of it Alexander offered sacrifice to those gous
to whom he said he had been directed by Ammon to sacrifice. On the following day he
sailed down tothe other island which was in the deep sea; and having eome to shore here
also, he offered other sacrifices to other gods and in another manner, These sacrifices he


Page 136, Instance 1, Class: Text
Arve instructing Hephaestion to fortify the citadel in Patala, he sent men into the adjacent
‘country, which was waterless, to dig wells and to render the land fit for habitation. Certain
of the native barbarians attacked these men, and falling upon them unavares slew some of
them; but having lost many of their own men, they fled into the desert. The work was
therefore accomplished by those who had been sent out, another army having joined them,
Which Alexander had despatched to take part in the work, when he heard ofthe attack of the
barbarians. Near Patala the water of the Indus is divided into two large rivers, both of which
retain the name of Indus as far as the sea. Here Alexander constructed harbour and
dockyard; and when his works had advanced towards completion he resolved to sail down
as far as the mouth of the right branch of the river.”" He gave Leonnatus the command of
1,000 cavalry and 8,000 heavy and light-armed infantry, and sent him to mareh through the
island of Patala opposite the naval expedition; while he himself took the fastest sailing
vessels, having one and a half bank of oars, all the thisty-oared galleys, and some of the
‘boats, and began to sail down the right branch of the river. The Indians of that region had
fled, and consequently he could get no pilot for the voyage, and the navigation of the river >
was very difficult. On the day after the start a storm arose, and the wind blowing right
against the stream made the river hollow”” and shattered the hulls of the vessels violently,
S0 that most of his ships were injured, and some of the thirty-oared galleys were entirely
‘broken up. But they succeeded in running them aground before they quite fell to pieces in
the water; and others were therefore constructed. He then sent the quickest of the light-
armed troops into the land beyond the river's bank and captured some Indians, who from
this time piloted him down the channel. But when they arrived at the place where the river
expands, so that where it was widest it extended 200 stades, a strong wind blew from the
‘outer sea, and the oars could hardly be raised in the swell; they therefore took refuge again
ina canal into which his pilots conducted them,


Page 137, Instance 0, Class: Text
goblet and bowls, whick were golden, mito the deep as thank-oflerings, praying the god to“
escort safely for him the fleet, which he intended to despatch to the Persian Gulf and the
mouths ofthe Euphrates and Tigres.”
CHAPTER XX.
EXPLonATion oF THe MouTHs oF THE INDUS.
ReTuRNING to Patala, he found that the citadel had been fortified and that Peithon had
arrived with his army, having accomplished everything for which he was despatched. He
‘ordered Hephaestion to prepare what was needful for the fortification of a naval station and
the construction of dockyards; for he resolved to leave behind here a fleet of many ships
near the city of Patala, where the river Indus divides itself into two streams. He himself
sailed down again into the Great Sea by the other mouth of the Indus, to ascertain which
branch ofthe river is easier to navigate. The mouths of the river Indus are about 1800 stades
distant from each other.” In the voyage down he arrived at a large lake in the mouth ofthe
river, which the river makes by spreading itself out; or perhaps the waters of the
surrounding district draining into it make it large, so that it very much resembles a gulf of
the sea.” For init were seen fish like those in the sea, larger indeed than those in our sea,
Having moored his ships then inthis lake, where the pilots directed, he left there most of the
soldiers and all the boats with Leonnatus; but he himself with the thity-oared galleys and
the vessels with one and a half row of oars passed beyond the mouth of the Indus, and ad 34
vaneing into the sea also this way, ascertained thatthe outlet of the river on tis side (ce. the
west) was easier to navigate than the other. He moored his ships near the shore, and taking
With him some of the cavalry went along the sea-coast three days’ journey, exploring what
kind of country it was fora coasting voyage, and ordering wels to be dug, so thatthe sailors,
might have water to drink. He then returned to the ships and sailed back to Patala; but he
sent a part of his army along the sea-coast to effect the same thing, instructing them to
return to Patala when they had dug the wells Sailing again down to the lake, he there
constructed another harbour and dockyard; and leaving a garvison for the place, he collected
sulicient food to supply the army for four months, as well as whatever else he could
‘procure for the coasting Voyage.
CHAPTER XXL.
CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE ORITIANS
‘Tu season of the year was then unfit for voyaging; for the periodical winds prevailed,
Which at that season do not blow there from the north, as with us, but from the Great Sea, in
the direction of the south wind.” Moreover it was reported that there the sea was fit for
navigation after the beginning of winter, from the setting of the Pleiades”? until the winter


Page 137, Instance 1, Class: Text
also offered according to the oracular instructions of Ammon. Then having gone beyond the
mouths ofthe river Indus, he sailed out into the open sea ashe said, to discover if any land

lay anywhere near i the Sea; but in my opinion, chiefly that he might be able to say that he

hnad navigated the great outer sea of India. There he sacrificed some bulls to Poseidon and
cast them into the sea; and having poured out a libation after the sacrifice, he threw the
‘goblet and bowls, which were golden, into the deep as thank-offerings, praying the god to 8
escort safely for him the fleet, which he intended to despatch to the Persian Gulf and the
mouths ofthe Euphrates and Tigres.”


Page 137, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHARTER AAL
CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE ORITIANS
‘Tu season of the year was then unfit for voyaging; for the periodical winds prevailed,
‘which at that season do not blow therefrom the north, as with us, but from the Great Sea, in
the direction of the south wind.” Moreover it was reported that there the sea was fit for
navigation afier the beginning of winter, from the setting ofthe Pleiades” until the winter
solstice; for at that season mild breezes usually blow from the land, drenched as it has been
‘with great rains; and these winds are convenient on a coasting voyage both for oars and
sails. Nearchus, who had been placed in command of the fleet, waited for the coasting
season; but Alexander, stating from Pata, advanced with all his army as far asthe river
‘Arabius.”® He then took half of the shield-bearing guards and archers, the infantry


Page 138, Instance 0, Class: Text
with him, he advanced farther. Arriving at the largest village of the tribe of the Oritians,
Which was called Rhambacia,” he commended the place and thought that ihe colonized a
city there it would become great and prosperous. He therefore left Hephaestion behind to
cerry out this project.”
(CHAPTER XXIL
Mann TuroucHt tit: Drseir oF GADROSIA.

‘AGAIN he took half of the shield-bearing guards and Agrianians, the guard of cavalry and
‘the horse-bowmen, and marched forward to the confines of the Gadrosians and Oritians,
Where he was informed thatthe passage was narrow, and the Oritians were drawn up with
the Gadrosians and were encamping in front of the pass, with the purpose of barring
‘Alexander's passage. They had indeed marshalled themselves there; but when it was
reported that he was already approaching, most of them fled from the pass, deserting their
‘guard. The chiefs of the Oritians, however, came to him, offering to surrender both
themselves and their nation. He instructed these to collect the multitude of their people
together and send them to their own abodes, since they were not about to suffer any harm,
‘Over these people he placed Apollophanes as viceroy, and with him he left Leonnatus the
confidential body-guard in Ora," at the head of all the Agrianians, some of the bowmen
and cavalry, and the rest ofthe Grecian mercenary infantry and cavalry. He instructed him to. 3
Wait until the fleet had sailed round the land, to colonize the city, and to regulate the affairs
‘of the Oritians so that they might pay the ereater respect to the viceroy. He himself, with the
main body of the army (for Hephaestion had arrived atthe head of the men who had been
left behind), advanced into the land ofthe Gadrosians by a route most of which was desert.
Aristobulus says that in this desert many myrth-tees grew, lager than the ordinary kind,
land that the Phoenicians, who accompanied the army for trafficking, gathered the gum of
myer, and loading the beasts of burden, carried it away.” For there was a great quantity of
it inasmuch as it exuded from large stems and had never before been gathered. He also says
that this desert produces many odorferous foots of nard,” which the Phoenicians likewise
‘gathered; but much of it was trampled down by the army, and a sweet perfume was diffused
far and wide over the land by the trampling: so great was the abundance of it. Inthe desert
there were also other kinds of tres, one of which had foliage like that ofthe bay-tree, and
‘ew in places washed by the waves of the sea. These tees were on ground which was left
dy by the ebb-tide: but when the water advanced they looked as if they had grown in the
‘sea. Of others the roots were always washed by the sea, because they grew in hollow places,


Page 138, Instance 1, Class: Text
regiments called foot Companions, the guard of the Companion cavalry, a squadron of each
of the other cavalry regiments, and all the horse-bowmen, and turned away thenee on the
left towards the sea to dig wells, so that there might be abundance of them for the fleet
sailing along on the coasting voyage; and at the same time to make an unexpected attack
upon the Oritians,”* a tribe ofthe Indians in this region, which had long been independent.
This he meditated doing because they had performed no friendly act either to himself or his,
army, He placed Hephaestion in command of the forces left behind. The Arabitians,”
another independent tribe dwelling near the river Arabius, thinking that they could not cope
With Alexander in battle, and yet being unwilling to submit to him, fled into the desert when
‘they heard that he was approaching. But crossing the river Arabius, which was both narrow
and shallow, and travelling by night through the greater part ofthe desert, he came near the
inhabited country at daybreak. Then ordering the infantry to follow him in regular line, he
took the cavalry with him, dividing it into squadrons, that it might occupy a very large part
of the plain, and thus marched into the land ofthe Oritians. All those who turned to defend 3
themselves were cut to pieves by the cavalry, and many of the others were taken prisoners
He then encamped near a small pieve of water, but when Hephaestion formed a junction
With him, he advanced farther. Arriving at the largest village of the tribe of the Oritians,
Which was called Rhambacia,” he commended the place and thought that ihe colonized a
city there it would become great and prosperous. He therefore left Hephaestion behind to
‘carry out this project”


Page 139, Instance 0, Class: Text
animals are caught, as birds ere with bird-lime, or fish with hooks. However they were
easly cut dough with stel: and when the thors are cut the stalk gives for much juice,
still more abundantly than fig-trees doin the springtime, and more pungent.”
CHAPTER XXIIL
Mancut tigoui rir Dest oF GaDRosts.
‘Tuencr Alexander marched through the land ofthe Gadkosians, by a dificult route, which
was also destitute ofall the necessaries of life; and in many places there was no water for
the army. Moreover they were compelled to march most of the way by night, and a great
distance from the sea. However he was very desirous of coming tothe part of the country
long the sea, both to sce what harbours were there, and 1o make what preparations be could
‘on his march for the fleet, either by employing his men in digging wells, or by making
farrangements somewhere for a market and anchorage. But the part of the country of the
Gadrosians near the sea was entizely desert. He therefore sent Thoas, son of Mandrodorus,
with a few horsemen down tothe sea, fo Feconnoie and see if there happened to be any
hhaven anywhere near or whether there was water or any other ofthe necessaries of Tie not
far from the sea, This man returned and reported that he found some fishermen upon the
shore living in stifling huts, which were made by putting together mussel-shells, and the
back-hones of fishes were used to form the roofs.”” He also said that these fishermen used
litle water, obtaining it with difficulty by serping away the gravel, and that what they got
was nota all fesh. When Alexander reached a certain place in Gadrosia, where com was
more abundant, he seized it and placed it upon the beasts of burden: and marking it with his
‘own seal, he ordered ito be conveyed down tothe sea. But while he was marching to the
halting stage nearest othe sea, the soldiers paying lie regard othe seal, the guards made
use ofthe com themselves, and gave a share oft o those who were especially pinched with
Inunger. To such a degree were they overcome by their misery that after mature deliberation
they resolved to take account ofthe visible and aleady impending destruction rather than
the danger of incuting the kings wrath, which was not before thei eyes and still remote
When Alexander ascertained the necessity which constained them so to act, he pardoned
those who had done the deed. He himself hastened forward to collet fom the land all he
‘could for victalling the army which was sailing round with the fleet; and sent Cretheus the
CCallatian”™to convey te supplies to the coast. He also ordered the natives o grind as much
‘com as they could and convey it down from the interior of the country, together with
dates" and sheep for sale to the soldiers. Moreover he sent Telephus, one of the
confidential Companions, down t another place on the coast with a small quantity of
‘ground corn.


Page 139, Instance 1, Class: Text
from which the water could not retire; and yet the trees were not destroyed by the sea. Some

‘of these tees inthis region were even thirty cubits high. AC that season they happened to be

in bloom; and the flower was very much like the white violet,” but the perfume was far
superior to that of the latter. There was also another thorny stalk growing out of the earth,
the thorn on which was so strong that, piercing the clothes of some men just riding past, it >
polled the horseman down from his horse rather than be itself torn off the stalk. tis also
said that when hares run past these bushes, the thoms cling to their fur; and thus these
animals are caught, as birds are with bird-lime, of fish with hooks. However they were
easily cut through with steel; and when the thoms are cut the stalk gives forth much juice,
still more abundantly than fig-trees do in the springtime, and more pungent.”


Page 140, Instance 0, Class: Text
He then advanced towards the capital of the Gadrosians, which was named Pura”; and he
arrived there in sixty days after starting from Ora. Most of the historians of Alexander's,
reign assert that all the hardships which his army suffered in Asia were not worthy of
‘comparison with the labours undergone here. Nearchus alone asserts that Alexander pursued
this route, not from ignorance of the difficulty of the journey, but because he heard that no
‘one had ever hitherto passed that way with an army an emerged in safety from the desert,
‘except Semiramis, when she fled from India. The natives said that even she emerged with
‘only twenty men of her army; and that Cyrus, son of Cambyses, escaped with only seven of
his men.”” For they say that Cyrus also marched into this region forthe purpose of invading
Inia; but that he did not effet his retreat before losing the greater part of is army, from the
desert and the other difficulties ofthis route. When Alexander received this information he
was seized with a desire of excelling Cyrus and Semiramis. Nearchus says that he turned his
march this way, both for this reason and at the same time for the purpose of conveying
provisions near the fleet. The scorching heat and lack of water destroyed a great part ofthe
army, and especially the beasts of burden; most of which perished from thirst and some of
them even from the depth and heat ofthe sand, because it had been thoroughly scorched by 3
the sun. For they met with lofiy ridges of deep sand, not closely pressed and hardened, but
such as received those who stepped upon it just as if they were stepping into mud, of rather
into untrodden snow. At the same time too the horses and mules suffered stil more, both in
‘going up and coming down the hills, from the unevenness of the road as well as from its,
instability. The length of the marches between the stages also exceedingly distressed the
army; forthe lack of water often compelled them to make the marches of unusual length.
When they travelled by night on a journey which it was necessary to complete, and at
daybreak came to water, they suffered no hardship at all; but if, while still on the march, on
account of the length of the way, they were caught by the heat, then they did indeed suffer
hardships ftom the blazing sun, being atthe same time oppressed by unassuageable thirst.”
CHAPTER XXV.
Surreminas oF THE AR.
‘Tu soldiers killed many of the beasts of burden of their own accord: for when provisions
were lacking, they came together, and slaughtered most of the horses and mules. They ate
the flesh of these, and said that they had died of thirst or had perished from the heat. There
was no one who divulged the real truth of their conduct, both on account of the men’s
distress and because all alike were implicated in the same offence. What was being done
hhad not escaped Alexander's notice; but he saw that the best eure forthe present state of
affairs would be to pretend to be ignorant of it, rather than to permit it as a thing known to 3
himself, The consequence was, that it was no longer easy to convey the soldiers who were
suffering from disease, or those who were left behind on the roads on account of the hea,
partly from the want of beasts of burden and partly because the men themselves were
‘knocking the waggons to pieces, not being able to draw them on account of the depth of the
sand, They did this also because in the first stages they were compelled on this account to
‘20, not by the shortest routes, but by those which were easiest forthe carriages. Thus some
were left behind along the toads on account of sickness, others from fatigue or the effects of
‘the heat, oF from not being able to bear up against the drought; and there was no one either
to show them the way or fo remain and tend them in ther sickness. For the expedition was
‘being made with great urgency; and the care of individual persons was necessarily neglected
in the zeal displayed for the safety of the army as a whole. AS they generally made the


Page 140, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXV,
SUFFERINGS OF THE ARM
‘Tut soldiers killed many of the beasts of burden of their own accord; for when provisions
were lacking, they came together, and slaughtered most of the horses and mules. They ate
the flesh of these, and said that they had died of thirst or had perished from the heat. There
was no one who divulged the real truth of their conduct, both on account of the men’s
distress and because all alike were implicated in the same offence. What was being done
had not escaped Alexander's notice; but he saw that the best cure for the present state of
affairs would be to pretend to be ignorant of it, rather than to permit it asa thing known to
himself. The consequence was, that it was no longer easy to convey the soldiers who were
suffering from disease, or those who were left behind on the roads on account of the heat,
partly from the want of beasts of burden and partly because the men themselves were
‘knocking the waggons to pieces, not being able to draw them on account ofthe depth of the
sand. They did this also because in the first stages they were compelled on this account to
10, not by the shortest routes, but by those which were easiest forthe earriages. Thus some
Were left behind along the roads on account of sickness, others from fatigue or the effects of
the heat, or from not being able to bear up against the drought; and there was no one either
to show them the way or to remain and tend them in their sickness. For the expedition was
being made with great urgency: and the care of individual persons was necessarily neglected
in the zeal displayed for the safety of the army as a whole. As they generally made the
marches by night, some of the men were overcome by sleep on the road; afterwards rousing
up again, those who sill had strength followed upon the tracks of the army: but only a few
‘out of many overtook the main body in safety. Most of them perished in the sand, like men


Page 141, Instance 0, Class: Text
soldiers, after great exertions, were hardly able to save themselves together with their
weapons, many of which they lost beyond recovery. When, after enduring the burning heat
and thirst, they lighted upon abundance of water, many of them perished from drinking to
excess, not being able to check their appetite for it. For this reason Alexander generally
pitched his camp, not near the water itself, but ata distance of about twenty stades from it,
to prevent the men and beasts from pressing in crowds into the river and thus perishing, and
at the same time to prevent those who had no control over themselves from fouling the
Water forthe est ofthe army by stepping into the springs or streams
CHAPTER XXVL.
ALEXANDER’s MaGNanious ConbuCT.

Here I have resolved not to pass over in silence the most noble deed perhaps ever
performed by Alexander, which occurred either in this land or, according to the assertion of
some other authors, sill earlier, among the Parapamisadians.™" The army was continuing its
march through the sand, though the heat of the sun was already scorching, because it was
necessary 10 reach water belore halting. They were far on the journey, and Alexander
himself, though oppressed with thirst, was nevertheless with great pain and difficulty
leading the army on foot, so that his soldiers, a i usual in such a case, might more patiently
‘bear their hardships by the equalization ofthe distress. At this time some of the light-armed
soldiers, starting away from the army in quest of water, found some collected in a shallow
clef, a small and mean spring. Collecting this water with difficulty, they came with all
speed to Alexander, as if they were bringing him some great boon. AS soon as they
approached the king, they poured the water into a helmet and carried it to him. He took it,
and commending the men who brought it, immediately poured it upon the ground in the
sight ofall. Asa result of this action, the entire army was re-invigorated to so great a degree
that any one would have imagined thatthe water poured away by Alexander had farmished a
draught to every man. This deed beyond all others I commend as evidence of Alexander's,
power of endurance and selfcontol, as well as of his skill in managing an army. The
following adventure also occurred to the army in that country. At last the guides declared
that they no longer remembered the way, because the tracks of it had been rendered invisible
by the wind blowing the sand over them. Moreover, in the deep sand which had been
‘everywhere reduced fo one level, there was nothing by which they could conjecture the right
way, not even the usual trees growing along it, nor any solid hillock rising up: and they had
not practised themselves in making journeys by the stars at night or by the sun in the
daytime, as sailors do by the constellations ofthe Bears—the Phoenicians by the Litle Bear,
and other men by the Greater Bear” Then at length Alexander perceived that it was
necessary for him to lead the way by declining to the let; and taking a few horsemen with
him he advanced in front ofthe army. But when the horses even of these were exhausted by
‘the heat, he left most ofthese men behind, and rode away with only five men and found the


Page 141, Instance 1, Class: Text
shipwrecked on the sea.’ Another calamity also befell the army, which greatly distressed
mean, horses, and beasts of burden; forthe country of the Gadrosians is supplied with rain by
the periodical winds, just as that ofthe Indians is; not the plains of Gadrosia, but only the
mountains where the clouds are carried by the wind and are dissolved into rain without
passing beyond the summits of the mountains. On one occasion, when the army bivouacked,
for the sake ofits water, near a small brook which was a winter torrent, about the second
Watch of the night the brook which flowed there was suddenly swelled by the rains in the 9
mountains which had fallen unperceived by the soldiers, The torrent advanced with so great
4 flood as to destroy most of the wives and children of the men who followed the army, and
to sweep avvay all the royal baggage as well as all the beasts of burden still remaining. The
soldiers, after great exertions, were hardly able to save themselves together with their
weapons, many of which they lost beyond recovery. When, after enduring the burning heat
and thirst, they lighted upon abundance of water, many of them perished from drinking to
excess, not being able 10 check their appetite for it, For this reason Alexander generally
pitched his camp, not near the water itself, but at a distance of about twenty stades from it,
to prevent the men and beasts from pressing in crowds into the river and thus perishing, and
fat the same time to prevent those Who had no control over themselves from Fouling the
Water for the est of the army by stepping into the springs or streams,


Page 142, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXVIL
Magcit THROUGH CARMANIA—PUNISIMENT OF VICEROYS

Wien he arrived at the capital of Gadrosia, he there gave his army a rest. He deposed
Apollophanes from the viceroyaly," because he discovered that he had paid no heed to his,
instructions. Thoas was appointed vieeroy over the people ofthis district; but as he fel ill
and died, ibyrtius sueceeded to the office. The same man had also lately been appointed by
‘Alexander viceroy of Carmania; but now the rule over the Arachotians and Gadtosians was
tgiven 10 him, and Tlepolemus, son of Pythophanes, received Carmania. The king was
already advancing into Carmania, when news was brought to him that Philip, the viceroy of
the country of the Indians, had been ploted against by the mercenaries and treacherously
Killed; but that Philip’s Macedonian body-guards had caught some of the murderers in the
very act and others afterwards, and had put them to death. When be had ascertained this, he
sent a letter into India to Eudemus and Taxiles, ordering them to administer the affairs ofthe 3
land which had previously been subordinated to Philip until he could send a viceroy for it
When he arrived in Carmania, Craters effected a junction with him, bringing with him the
rest of the army and the elephants. He also brought Ordanes, whom he had arrested for
revolting and tying to effect a revolution *™ Thither also came Stasanor, the viceroy of the
Areians'"* and Zarangians, accompanied by Pharismanes, son of Phrataphernes, the viceroy
‘of the Parthians and Hyrcanians. There came also the generals who had been left with
Parmenio over the army in Media, Cleander, Sitalees, and Heracon, bringing with them the
‘greater part of their army. Both’the natives and the soldiers themselves brought many
accusations against Cleander and Sitalces, as for example, that the temples had been
pillaged by them, old tombs rifled, and other acts of injustice, recklessness, and tyranny
perpetrated against their subjects. As these charges were proved,” he put them to death, in
‘order to inspire others who might be left as vieeroys, governors, or prefeets of provinces
withthe fear of suffering equal penalties with them if they swerved from the path of duty.”
This was one of the chief means by which Alexander kept in subordination the nations
which he had conquered in war or which had voluntarily submitted to him, though they
‘were so many in number and so far distant from each other: because under his regal sway it
‘was not allowed that those who were ruled should be unjustly treated by those who ruled. At_ 3
that time Heracon was aequtted ofthe charge, but soon after, being convicted by the men of
Susa of having pillaged the temple in that city, he also suffered punishment. Stasanor and
Phrataphernes came to Alexander bringing a multitude of beasts of burden and many
camels, when they learnt that he was marching by the route to Gadrosia, conjecturing that
his army would suffer the very hardships which it did sufer. Therefore these men arrived
just at the very time they were required, as also did their camels and beasts of burden. For
‘Alexander distributed all these animals to the officers man by man, to all the various
squadrons and centuries of the cavalry, and tothe various companies of the infantry, as their.
‘number allowed him.


Page 142, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘then went and fetched the whole army. For seven days they marched along the sea-coast,
supplying themselves with water from the shore. Thence he led his expedition into the
interior, for now the guides knew the way.


Page 143, Instance 0, Class: Text
apne ieee rents cpa re data aetna clad ened eabeenaiaararnalaaae
his forces through Carmania lying extended with his Companions upon two covered
waggons joined together, the fute being played to him: and thatthe soldiers followed hima
wearing garlands and sporting. Food was provided for them, as well as all kinds of dainties
Which had been brought together along the roads by the Carmanians. They say that he did
this in imitation of the Bacchic revelry of Dionysus, because a story was told about that
deity that after subduing the Indians he traversed the greater part of Asia in this manner and
received the appellation of Thriambus."* For the same reason the processions in honour of
Victories after war were called thriambi. This has been recorded neither by Ptolemy, son of
agus, nor by Aristobulus, son of Aristobulus, nor by any other writer whose testimony on
such points any one would feel to be worthy of ered. It is sufficient therefore for me to
record it as unworthy of belief” But as to what I am now going to describe I follow the
account of Aristobulus. In Carmania Alexander offered sacrifices to the gods as thank-
offerings for his victory over the Indians, and because his army had been brought in safety
‘out of Gadrosia, He also celebrated a musical and gymnastic contest. He then appointed
Peucestas one of his confidential body-guards, having already resolved to make him Viceroy
of Persis. He wished him, before being appointed to the viceroyalty, to experience this
honour and evidence of confidence, asa reward for his exploit among the Mallians. Up to
this time the number of his confidential body-guards had been seven:—Leonnatus, son of,
‘Anteas, Hephaestion, son of Amyntor, Lysimachus, son of Agathocles, Arstonolis, son of
Pisacus, these four being Pellaeans; Perdiceas, son of Orontes, from Orests, Ptolemy. son of
LLagus, and Peithon, son of Crateas, the Hleordaeans. Peueestas, who had held the shield over
‘Alexander, was now added to them as an eighth. At this time Nearchus, having sailed round
‘the coast of Ora and Gadrosia and that of the Fehthyophagi put into port in the inhabited
part ofthe coastland of Carmania,*’ and going up thence into the interior with a few men
hie reported to Alexander the particulars of the voyage which he had made along the coasts
‘of the extemal sea, Nearchus Was then sent down to the sea again to sail round as far as the
country of Susiana, and the outlets ofthe river Tiges.*"! How he sailed from the river Indus *
to the Persian Sea and the mouth ofthe Tigres, I shall describe in a separate book, following
the account of Nearchus himself For he also wrote a history of Alexander in Greek
Perhaps I shall be able to compose this narrative in the future, if inclination and the divine
influence urge me to it. Alexander now ordered Hephaestion to march into Perss from
‘Carmania along the seashore with the larger division of the army and the beasts of burden,
taking with him also the elephants; because, as he was making the expedition inthe season
‘of winter" the part of Persis near the sea was warm and possessed abundant supplies of
provisions

CHAPTER XXIX,


Page 143, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXIX,
ALEXANDER IN PeRsis—Town oF C¥RUs REPAIRED.

He himself then marched to Pasargadae in Persis, with the lightest of his infantry, the
‘Companion cavalry and a part of the archers; but he sent Stasanor down to his own land.
When he arrived atthe confines of Perss, he found that Phrasaortes was no longer viceroy,
for he happened to have died of disease while Alexander was still in India. Orxines was
managing the affairs ofthe country, not because he had been appointed ruler by Alexander,
but because he thought it his duty to Keep Persia in order for him, as there was no other
rules! Atopates, the viceroy of Media, also came to Pasargadae, bringing Baryaxes, a
Mede, under atest, because he had assumed the upright head-dress and called himself king
of the Persians and Medes."” With Baryaxes he also brought those who had taken part with
‘him inthe attempted revolution and revolt. Alexander put these men to death,


Page 144, Instance 0, Class: Text
according to Atistobulus, he found it dug through and pillaged. The tomb of the famous
‘Cyrus was in the royal park at Pasargadae, and around it a grove of all kinds of tees had
‘been planted. It was also watered by a stream, and high grass grew in the meadow: The base
‘of the tomb itself had been made of squared stone in the form of a rectangle. Above there
was a stone building surmounted by a roof, with a door leading within, so narrow that even
‘small man could with difficulty enter, after suffering much discomfort" In the building
lay a golden coffin, in which the body of Cyrus had been buried, and by the side of the
coffin was a couch, the feet of which were of gold wrought with the hammer. A carpet of
Babylonian tapestry with purple rugs formed the bedding: upon it were also a Median coat
With sleeves and other tunics of Babylonian manufacture. Aristobulus adds that Median
‘rousers and robes dyed the colour of hyacinth were also lying upon it as well as others of 3
‘purple and various other colours; moreover there were collars, sabres, and earrings of gold
and precious stones soldered together, and near them stood a table. On the middle of the
couch lay the coffin which contained the body of Cyrus. Within the enclosure, near the
ascent leading to the tomb, there was a small house built for the Magians who guarded the
tomb; a duty which they had discharged ever since the time of Cambyses, son of Cyrus, son
succeeding father as guard. To these men a sheep and specified quantities of wheaten flour
and wine were given daily by the king; and a horse once a month as a sactifice to Cyrus.
Upon the tomb an inscription in Persian letters had been placed, which bore the following
meaning in the Persian language: “O man, 1am Cyrus, son of Cambyses, who founded the
empire ofthe Persians, and was king of Asia. Do not therefore grudge me this monument.”
‘As soon as Alexander had conquered Persia, he was very desirous of entering the tomb of
‘Cynus; but he found that everything else had been carried off except the coflin and couch,
‘They had even maltreated the king's body: for they had tora off the lid of the coffin and east
‘out the eorpse. They had tried to make the coffin itself of smaller bulk and thus more
portable, by cutting part of it off and crushing part of it up; but as their efforts did not
succeed, they departed, leaving the coffin in that state. Aristobulus says that he was himself
commissioned by Alexander to restore the tomb for Cyrus, to put in the coffin the parts of
the body still preserved, to put the lid on, and to restore the parts of the coffin which had
been defaced. Moreover he was instructed to stretch the couch tight with bands, and to
deposit all the other things which used to lie there for ornament, both resembling the former 3
‘ones and of the same number. He was ordered also to do away with the door, building part
‘of itup with stone and plastering part of it over with cement; and finally to put the royal sea
upon the cement. Alexander arrested the Magians who were the guards of the tomb, and put
‘them to the torture to make them confess who had done the deed; but in spite ofthe torture
they confessed nothing either about themselves or any other person. In no other way were
they proved to have been privy tothe deed: they were therefore released by Alexander
CHAPTER XXX.
Prucestas ApromsTED VICrROY OF PERS

‘Tuexct he proceeded to the royal palace ofthe Persians, which he had on a former occasion
himself burnt down, as I have previously related, expressing my disapprobation of the
act*!; and on his return Alexander himself did not commend it. Many charges were brought
by the Persians against Orxines, who ruled them after the death of Phrasaortes. He was


Page 144, Instance 1, Class: Text
Prucestas ApromsTED VICrROY OF PERS
‘Tuexct he proceeded to the royal palace ofthe Persians, which he had on a former occasion
himself burnt down, as I have previously related, expressing my disapprobation of the
act*!; and on his return Alexander himself did not commend it. Many charges were brought
by the Persians against Orxines, who ruled them after the death of Phrasaortes. He was
convicted of having pillaged temples and royal tombs, and of having unjustly put many of
the Persians to death. He was therefore hanged by men acting under Alexander's orders"
and Peucestas the confidential body-guard was appointed viceroy of Persis. The king placed
special confidence in him both for other reasons, and especially on account of his exploit
‘among the Mallians, where he braved the greatest dangers and helped to save Alexander's


Page 145, Instance 0, Class: Text
BOOK VII. we
CHAPTER |
ALEXANDER PLANS.—THE INDIAN PHILOSOPHERS

Wun Alexander arrived at Pasargadae and Persepolis he was seized with an ardent
desire to sail down the Euphrates and Tigres to the Persian Sea, and to see the mouths of
those rivers as he had already seen those of the Indus as well as the sea into which it flows.
Some authors" also have stated that he was meditating a voyage round the larger portion of
‘Arabia, the country of the Ethiopians, Libya (ie. Aftica), and Numidia beyond Mount Atlas
to Gadeira (ie. Cadiz)” inward into our sea (i.e. the Mediterranean); thinking that after he 3%
hhad subdued both Libya and Carchedon (ie. Carthage), he might with justice be ealled king
‘of all Asia For he sad thatthe kings ofthe Persians and Medes called themselves Great
Kings without any right, sine they did not rule the larger par of Asia Some say that he was
meditating a voyage thence into the Euxine Sea, to Seythia and the Lake Maeotis (i.e. the
Sea of Azov); while others assert that he intended to go to Sicily and the lapygian Cape,”
for the fame of the Romans spreading far and wide was now exciting his jealousy. For my
‘own part I cannot conjecture with any certainty what were his plans; and T do not eae to
‘guess. But this | think T ean confidently affirm, that he meditated nothing small or mean;
and that he would never have remained satisfied with any of the acquisitions he had made,
even if he had added Europe to Asia, or the islands ofthe Britons to Europe; but would still
have gone on seeking for unknown lands beyond those mentioned. I verily believe that if he
hhad found no one else to strive with, he would have striven with himself. And on this
account commend some ofthe Indian philosophers, who are said to have been caught by
‘Alexander as they were walking in the open meadow where they were accustomed to spend
‘their time.” At the sight of him and his army they did nothing else but stamp with their feet
‘on the earth, upon which they were stepping. When he asked them by means of interpreters
‘what was the meaning of their action, they replied as follows: “O king Alexander, every
man possesses as much of the earth as this upon which we have stepped; but thou being
‘only a man like the rest of us, except in being meddlesome and arrogant, art come over so
‘reat a part of the earth from thy own land, giving trouble both to thyself and others"! And 37!
Yet thou also wilt soon die, and possess only as much of the earth as is sufficient for thy
‘body to be buried in.”


Page 145, Instance 1, Class: Text
life. Besides this, he did not refuse to accommodate himself to the Asiatic mode of living;
‘and as soon as he was appointed to the positon of viceroy of Persis, he openly assumed the
native garb, being the only man among the Macedonians who adopted the Median dress in
preference to the Grecian." He also learnt to speak the Persian language correctly, and
ccomported himself in all other respects like a Persian, For this conduet he was not only
commended by Alexander, but the Persians also were highly delighted with him, for
preferring their national customs to those of his own forefathers,


Page 146, Instance 0, Class: Text
(ON This occasion “Alexander commended both the words and the men Wie spoke tem, Sut
nevertheless he did just the opposite to that which he commended. When also in te Isthmus
hhe met Diogenes of Sinope, lying in the sun, standing near him with his shield-bearing
‘guards and foot Companions, he asked if he wanted anything. But Diogenes said that he
Wanted nothing else, except that he and his attendants would stand out of the sunlight
‘Alexander is said to have expressed his admiration of Diogenes's conduct.‘ Thus it is,
evident that Alexander was not entirely destitute of better feelings; but be was the slave of
his insatiable ambition. Again, when he arrived at Taxila and saw the naked sect of Indian
philosophers, he was exceedingly desirous that one of these men should live with him;
because he admired their power of endurance.®” But the oldest of the philosophers,
Dandamis by name, of whom the others were disciples, refused to come himself to
‘Alexander, and would not allow the others to do so. He is said to have replied that he was
himself a son of Zeus, if Alexander was"; and that he wanted nothing from him, because
the was quite contented with what he had. And besides he said that he saw his attendants
wandering over so much of the land and sea to no advantage, and that there was no end to
‘their many wanderings. Therefore he had no desire that Alexander should give him anything
Which was in his own possession, nor on the other hand was he affaid that he should be
excluded from anything which Alexander ruled over. For while he lived the country of
India, which produces the fruits in their season, was sufficient for him; and when he died he
should be released from the body, an unsuitable associate. Alexander then did not attempt to
force him to come with him, considering that the man was fiee to do as he pleased. But
Megasthenes has recorded that Calanus, one of the philosophers of this region, who had
very little power over his desires, was induced to do so; and that the philosophers
themselves reproached him, for having deserted the happiness existing among them, and
serving another lord instead of the God."™*

CHAPTER IIL
SSHLE-SACRIFICE OF THE INDIAN CALANUS.
‘Tis I have recorded, because in a history of Alexander itis necessary also to speak of
Calanus; for when he was inthe country of Persi his health became delicate, though he had
never before been subject to illness.” Accordingly, not being willing to lead the life of a
man in infirm health, he told Alexander that in such eircumstances he thought it best for hima
to put an end to his existence, before he came into experience of any disease which might
‘compel him to change his former mode of living. Fora long time the king tried to dissuade
him; however, when he saw that he was not to be overcome, but would find some other way
of release if this were not yielded to him, he ordered a funeral pyre to be heaped up for him,
in the place where the man himself digected, and gave instructions that Ptolemy, son of
LLagus, the confidential body-guard, should have the charge of it. They say that @ solemn
procession, consisting both of horses and men, advanced before him, some of the latter
‘being armed and others carrying all kinds of incense for the pyre. They also say that they
were carrying gold and silver goblets and royal apparel; and because he was unable to walk
‘through ilness, a horse was prepared for him. However, not being able to mount the horse,
hhe was conveyed stretched out upon a iter, ctowned with a garland after the custom of the
Indians, and singing in the Indian language. The Indians say that he sang hymns to the gods
and eulogiums on his countrymen.” Before he ascended the funera-pyre he presented the
horse which he should himself have mounted, being a royal steed of the Nisaean breed,” to
Lysimachus, one of those who attended him to learn his philosophy. He distributed among,
his other disciples the goblets and rugs which Alexander had ordered to be cast into the pyte
as an honour fo him. Then mounting the pyre he lay down upon it in a becoming manner,


Page 146, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘ON this occasion Alexander commended both the words and the men who spoke them; but
nevertheless he did just the opposite to that which he commended. When also in te Isthmus
hhe met Diogenes of Sinope, lying in the sun, standing near him with his shield-bearing
‘guards and foot Companions, he asked if he wanted anything. But Diogenes said that he
Wanted nothing else, except that he and his attendants would stand out of the sunlight
‘Alexander is said to have expressed his admiration of Diogenes's conduct.‘ Thus it is,
evident that Alexander was not entirely destitute of better feelings; but be was the slave of
his insatiable ambition. Again, when he arrived at Taxila and saw the naked sect of Indian
philosophers, he was exceedingly desirous that one of these men should live with him;
because he admired their power of endurance.®” But the oldest of the philosophers,
Dandamis by name, of whom the others were disciples, refused to come himself to
‘Alexander, and would not allow the others to do so. He is said to have replied that he was
himself a son of Zeus, if Alexander was"; and that he wanted nothing from him, because
the was quite contented with what he had. And besides he said that he saw his attendants
wandering over so much of the land and sea to no advantage, and that there was no end to
‘their many wanderings. Therefore he had no desire that Alexander should give him anything
Which was in his own possession, nor on the other hand was he affaid that he should be
excluded from anything which Alexander ruled over. For while he lived the country of
India, which produces the fruits in their season, was sufficient for him; and when he died he
should be released from the body, an unsuitable associate. Alexander then did not attempt to
force him to come with him, considering that the man was fiee to do as he pleased. But
Megasthenes has recorded that Calanus, one of the philosophers of this region, who had
very little power over his desires, was induced to do so; and that the philosophers
themselves reproached him, for having deserted the happiness existing among them, and
serving another lord instead of the God."™*


Page 147, Instance 0, Class: Text
such-like things, facts of great import to those who are desirous of learning how steadfast

and immovable a thing the human mind isin regard to what it wishes to accomplish
CHAPTER IV.
“MARRIAGES BETWEEN MACEDONIANS AND PERSIANS
‘Ar this time Alexander sent Atropates away to his own viceroyalty,* after advancing to
Susa; where he arested Abulites and his son Oxathres, and put them to death on the ground
that they were governing the Susians badly.“ Many outrages upon temples, tombs, and the
subjects themselves had been committed by those who were ruling the counities conquered
by Alexander in war; because the king’s expedition into India had taken a long time, and it
was not thought credible that he would ever return in safety from so many nations
possessing so many elephants, going to his destruction beyond the Indus, Hydaspes,
‘Acesines, and Hyphasis." The calamities that befell him among the Gadrosians were still
‘greater inducements to those acting as viceroys inthis region to be free from apprehension
‘of his return to his dominions. Not only so, but Alexander himself is said to have become 3
more inclined at that time to believe accusations which were plausible in every way, as well
as 0 inflict very severe punishment upon those who were convicted even of small offences,
‘because withthe same disposition he thought they would be likely to perform great ones
Tn Susa also he celebrated both his own wedding and those of his companions. He

himself married Barsine, the eldest daughter of Darius," and according to Avistobulus,
besides her another, Parysats, the youngest daughter of Ochus.* He had already married
Roxana, daughter of Oxyartes the Bactrian.” To Hephaestion he gave Drypetis, another
daughter of Darius, and his own wife's sister; for he wished Hephaestion’s children to be
first cousins to his own. To Craterus he gave Amastrine, daughter of Oxyartes the brother of
Darius; to Perdiccas, the daughter of Atropates, viceroy of Media; to Ptolemy the
confidential body-guard, and Eumenes the royal secretary, the daughters of Artabazus, tothe
former Artacama, and to the latter Artonis. To Nearchus he gave the daughter of Barsine and
Mentor, to Seleucus the daughter of Spitamenes the Bactrian. Likewise to the rest of his
‘Companions he gave the choicest daughters of the Persians and Medes, to the number of
eighty. The weddings were celebrated after the Persian manner, seats being placed in a row
for the bridegrooms; and after the banguet the brides came in and seated themselves, each 3
‘one near her own inisband. The bridegroom took them by the right hand and kissed them;
the king being the firs to begin, for the weddings of all were conducted in the same way
This appeared the most popula thing which Alexander ever did; and it proved his affection
for his Companions. Each man took his own bride and led her away; and on all without
exception Alexander bestowed dowries.™* He also ordered thatthe names of all the other
Macedonians who had married any of the Asiatic women should be registered. They were
‘over 10,000 in number, and to these Alexander made presents on account of their weddings.


Page 147, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘being exhibited at the cost of a friend; but to the rest it was a cause of wonder that he did not
move any part of his body in the fire.” As soon as the men to whom the duty had been ¥
assigned set fire to the pyre, Nearchus says the trumpets sounded, in accordance with
‘Alexander's order, and the whole army raised the war-ry as it was inthe habit of shouting
When advancing to battle. The elephants also chimed in with ther shrill and warlike ery, in
honour of Calanus. Authors upon whom reliance may be placed, have recorded these and
suehclike things facts of great import to those who are desirous of learning how steadfast
and immovable a thing the human mind isin regard to what it wishes to accomplish


Page 148, Instance 0, Class: Text
incurred them’; and for this purpose he ordered that a register should be made of how
much each man’owed, in order that they might receive the money. At first only a few
registered their names, fearing that this was being instituted as a test by Alexander, to
discover which of the soldiers found their pay insufficient for their expenses, and which of
them were extravagant in their mode of living. When he was informed that most of them
were not registering their names, but that those who had borrowed money on bonds were
conecaling the fact, he reproached them for thei distrust of him. For he said that it was not
right either that the king should deal otherwise than sincerely with his subjects, or that any 3
‘of those ruled by him should think that he would deal otherwise than sincerely with them.
‘Accordingly, he had tables placed in the camp with money upon them; and he appointed
men to manage the distribution of it He ordered the debs ofall who showed a money-bond
to be liquidated without the debtors’ names being any longer registered. Consequently, the
men believed that Alexander was dealing sincerely with them; and the fact that they were
not known was a greater pleasure to them than the fact that they ceased to be in debt. This
presentation tothe army is said to have amounted to 20,000 talents * He also gave presents
to particular individuals, according as each man was held in honoue for his merit or valour,
if he had become conspicuous in crises of danger. Those who were distinguished for their
personal gallantry he crowned with golden chaplets:—fist, Peueestas, the man who had
held the shield over him; second, Leonnatus, who also had held his shield over him, and
moreover had incurred dangers in India and won a victory in Ora.*"' For he had posted
himself with the forces left with him against the Oritians and the tibes living near them,
Who were trying to effect a revolution, and had conquered them in batl. He also seemed to
hhave managed other affairs in Ora with great success. In addition to these, he crowned
"Nearchus for his successful voyage round the coast from the land of the Indians through the
Great Sea; for this officer had now arrived at Susa. Besides these three, he crowned
Onesicrtus, the pilot of the royal ship; as well as Hephaestion and the rest of the
confidential body-guards
:
CHAPTER VI.
AN ARMY OF ASIATICS TRAINED UNDER THE MACEDONIAN DISCIPLINE

‘Tu viceroys from the newly-built cities and the rest of the territory subdued in war eame to
him, bringing with them youths just rowing into manhood to the number of 30,000, all of
the same age, whom Alexander called Epigoni (successors)? They were aecoutred with
Macedonian arms, and exercised in military discipline after the Macedonian system. The
arrival of these is said to have vexed the Macedonians, who thought that Alexander was
contriving every means in his power to free himself from his previous need of their services
For the same reason also the sight of his Median dress was no small cause of dissatisfaction


Page 148, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER VI.
AN ARMY OF ASIATICS TRAINED UNDER THE MACEDONIAN DISCIPLINE
‘Tu viceroys from the newly-built cities and the rest of the territory subdued in war eame to
him, bringing with them youths just rowing into manhood to the number of 30,000, all of
the same age, whom Alexander called Epigoni (successors)? They were aecoutred with
Macedonian arms, and exercised in military discipline after the Macedonian system. The
arrival of these is said to have vexed the Macedonians, who thought that Alexander was
contriving every means in his power to free himself from his previous need of their services
For the same reason also the sight of his Median dress was no small eause of dissatisfaction
to them; and the weddings celebrated in the Persian fashion were displeasing to most of
them, even including some of those who married, although they had been greatly honoured
by the king putting himself on the same level with them in the marriage ceremony. They
‘were offended at Peucestas, the viceroy of Persis, on account of his Persianizing both in
dress and in speech, because the king was delighted by his adopting the Asiatic customs.
‘They were disgusted that the Bactian, Sogdianian, Arachotian, Zarangian, Avian, and
Parthian horsemen, as well as the Persian horsemen called the Evacae, were distributed
among the squadrons of the Companion cavalry: as many of them at least as were seen to
excel in reputation, fineness of statue, oF any other good quality; and that a fifth cavalry
division was added to these troops, not composed entirely of foreigners: but the whole body
‘of cavalry was increased in number, and men were picked from the foreigners and put into
it Cophen, son of Artabazus, Hydames and Artiboles, sons of Mazaeus, Sisines and


Page 149, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER VIL
Naviaaton oF ri Tio

AvexanpeR now ordered Hephaestion to lead the main body of the infantry as far as the
Persian Sea, while he himself, his fleet having sailed up into the land of Susiana, embarked
with the sield-bearing guards and the body-guard of infantry; and having also put on board
4 few of the cavalry Companions, he sailed down the river Eulaeus to the sea"*® When he
was near the place where the river discharges itself into the deep, he left there most of his 3
ships, including those which were in need of repair, and with those especially adapted for
fast sailing he coasted along out of the river Eulaeus through the sea to the mouth of the
Tigres. The rest of the ships were conveyed down the Eulaeus as far as the canal which has
been cut from the Tigres into the Eulacus, and by this means they were brought into the
Tigres. Of the rivers Fuphates and Tigres which enclose Syria between them, whence also
its name is called by the natives Mesopotamia, the Tigres flows in a much lower channel
‘than the Euphrates, from which it receives many canals; and afte taking up many tributaries
and its waters being swelled by them, it falls into the Persian Sea." It is a large river and
«ean be erossed on foot nowhere as far as its mouth," inasmuch as none of its water is used
up by irigation of the country. For the land through which it flows is more elevated than its
water, and itis not drawn off into canals or into another river, but rather receives them into
itself. It is nowhere possible to irrigate the land from it. But the Euphrates flows in an
elevated channel, and is everywhere on a level with the land through which it passes. Many
ceanals have been made from it, some of which are always kept flowing, and from which the
inhabitants on both banks supply themselves with water; others the people make only when
requisite to irrigate the land, when they are in need of water from drought. For this
country is usually fre from rain. The consequence i, that the Euphrates at lst has only a
small Volume of water, which disappears into a marsh. Alexander sailed over the sea round
the shore of the Persian Gulf lying between the rivers Eulaeus and Tigres: and thence he
sailed up the latter river as far as the camp where Hephaestion had settled with all his forces.
‘Thence he sailed again to Opis, a city situated on that river In his voyage up he destroyed
the weirs which existed in the river, and thus made the stream quite level. These weirs had
‘been constructed by the Persians, 10 prevent any enemy having a superior naval force from
sailing up from the sea into their country. The Persians had had recourse to these
contrivances because they were not a nautical people; and thus by making an unbroken
succession of weits they had rendered the voyage up the Tigres a matter of impossibility
But Alexander said that such devices were unbecoming to men who are victorious in battle;
and therefore he considered this means of safety unsuitable for him; and by easly
demolishing the laborious work of the Persians, he proved in fact that what they thought a
protection was unworthy ofthe name.


Page 149, Instance 1, Class: Text
Phradasmenes, sons of Phrataphernes, viceroy of Parthia and Hyrcania, Histanes, son of
Oxyartes and brother of Alexander's wife, Roxane, as well as Autobares and his brother
Mithrobaeus were picked out and enrolied among the foot-guard in addition to the
Macedonian officers. Over these Hystaspes the Bactrian was placed as commander: and
Macedonian spears were given to them instead of the barbarian javelins which had thongs
attached to them. All tis offended the Macedonians, who thought that Alexander was
becoming altogether Asiatic in his ideas, and was holding the Macedonians themselves as
well a their customs in a postion of contempt."


Page 150, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘Wuen he arrived at Opis, he collected the Macedonians and announced that he intended to
discharge from the army those who were useless for military service either from age or fom
‘being maimed in the limbs; and he said he would send them back to their own abodes. He 3
also promised to give those who went back as much as would make them special objects of
envy to those at home and arouse in the other Macedonians the wish to share similar
angers and labours. Alexander said this, no doubt, for the purpose of pleasing the
Macedonians; but on the contrary they were, not without reason, offended by the speech
Which he delivered, thinking that now they were despised by him and deemed to be quite
useless for military service. Indeed, throughout the whole of this expedition they had been
offended at many other things; for his adoption ofthe Persian dress, thereby exhibiting his
contempt for thei opinion, caused them grief, as did also his aecoutring the foreign soldiers,
called Epigoni in the Macedonian style, and the mixing of the alien horsemen among the
ranks of the Companions. Therefore they could not remain silent and control themselves,
‘but urged him to dismiss all of them from his army; and they advised him to prosecute the
war in company wit his father, deriding Ammon by this remark. When Alexander heard
this (for at that time he was more hasty in temper than heretofore, and no longer, as of old,
indulgent to the Macedonians from having a retinue of foreign attendants), leaping down
from the platform with his officers around him, he ordered the most conspicuous of the men
Who had tried to stir up the multitude to sedition to be arrested. He himself pointed out with
his hand to the shield-bearing guards those whom they were to arrest, t0 the number of
thirteen; and he ordered these to be led away to execution.®*! When the rest, stricken with
terror, became silent, he mounted the platform and spoke as follows:—

3

CHAPTER IX.
ALEXANDER’s SPEECH

“Tue speech which I am about to deliver will not be forthe purpose of checking your start
‘homeward, for, so far as Lam concemed, you may depart wherever you wish: but because 1
wish you to know what kind of men you were originally and how you have been
transformed since you came into our serviee. Inthe first place, as is reasonable, I shall begin
my speech from my father Philip. For he found you vagabond and destitute of means, most
‘of you clad in hides, feeding a few sheep up the mountain sides, fr the protection of which
you had to fight with small success against Illyians, Triballimns, and the border
‘Thracians* Instead of the hides he gave you cloaks to wear, and from the mountains he
led you dow into the plans, and made you capable of fighting the neighbouring barbarians,
so that you were no longer compelled to preserve yourselves by trusting rather 10 the
inaccessible strongholds than to your own valour. He made you colonists of cites, which he
adorned with useful laws and customs; and from being slaves and subjects, he made you
rulers over those very barbarians by whom you yourselves, as well as Your property, were
previously liable to be plundered and ravaged. He also added the greater part of Thrace to
Macedonia, and by seizing the most conveniently situated places on the sea-coast, he spread
abundance over the land from commerce, and made the working of the mines a secure
employment." He made you rulers over the Thessalians, of whom you had formerly been >
in mortal fear; and by humbling the nation of the Phocians, he rendered the avenue into
Greece broad and easy for you, instead of being narrow and difficult. The Athenians and
‘Thebans, who were always Iying in wait to attack Macedonia, he humbled to such a degree,
—1 also then rendering him my personal aid in the eampaign,"°'—that instead of paying
tribute to the former” and being vassals tothe latter those States in their tun procure
‘security to themselves by our assistance. He penetrated into the Pelooonnese. and after


Page 150, Instance 2, Class: Text
Woes be arsived at Opis, he collected the Macedonians and announced that he intended to
discharge from the army those who were useless for military service either from age or from
‘being maimed in the limbs; and he said he would send them back to their own abodes. He
also promised to give those who went back as much as would make them special objects of
envy to those at home and arouse in the other Macedonians the wish to share similar
dangers and labours. lexander said this, no doubt, for the purpose of pleasing the
Macedonians; but on the contrary they were, not without reason, offended by the speech
which he deivered, thinking that nw they were despised by him and deemed to be quite
useless for military service. Indeed, throughout the whole of this expedition they had been
offended at many’osher things: fo his adoption of the Persian dress, thereby exhibiting his
contempt fr thet opinion, caused them grief, as dd also his accousing the Foreign soldiers
called Epigoni in the Macedonian style, and the mixing of the alien horsemen among the
ranks of the Companions. Therefore they could not main silent and control themselves,
‘but urged him to dismiss all of them from his army: and they advised him to prosecute the
‘arin company with his father, driding Ammon by this remark. When Alexander heard
this (fr at that time he was more hasty in temper than heretofore, and no longer, a of old,
indulgent to the Macedonian from having a retinue of foreign attendants, leaping down
fiom the platform with his officers around him, he ordered the most conspicuous ofthe men
who had tried to stir up the multitude to sedition to be arrested. He himself pointed out with
his hand to the shield-beating guards those whom they were to atest, to the number of
thirteen; and he ordered these tobe led away © execution"! When the test, stricken with
terror, became silent, he mounted the platform and spoke as follows:


Page 151, Instance 0, Class: Text
Darius with my cavalry, I added to your empire the whole of Ionia,"”” the whole of Aeolis, **
both Phrygias’”' and Lydia, and I took Miletus by siege. All the other places I gained by
Voluntary surrender, and I granted you the privilege of appropriating the wealth found in
them. The riches of Egypt and Cyrene, which I acquired without fighting a battle, have
‘come to you. Coele-Syria, Palestine, and Mesopotamia are your property. Babylon, Bactra,
and Susa are yours. The wealth of the Lydian, the treasures of the Persians, and the riches
‘of the Indians are yours; and so is the External Sea. You are viceroys, you are generals, you
are captains. What then have I reserved to myself afterall these labours, except this purple
robe and this diadem?” I have appropriated nothing myself, nor ean any one point out my
‘treasures, except these possessions of yours or the things which am guarding on your
‘bohalf*” Individually, however, I have no motive to guard them, since I feed on the same
fare as you do, and I take only the same amount of sleep. Nay, I do not think that my fare is
as good as that of those among you who live luxuriously; and I know that I often sit up at
night to watch for you, that you may be able to sleep.

x

CHAPTER X.
Auexanpen’s Spec (continued),

“Bur some one may say, that while you endured toil and fatigue, 1 have acquired these
things as your leader without myself sharing the toil and fatigue. But who is there of you
‘who knows that he has endured greater toil for me than have for him? Come now!
‘whoever of you has wounds, let him strip and show them, and I will show mine in turn; for
there is no part of my bods. infront at any rate, remaining free from wounds; nor is there
any kind of weapon used either for close combat or for hurling atthe enemy, the traces of
‘hich Ido not bear on my person. For Ihave been wounded with the sword in close fight, 1
have been shot with arrows, and I have been struck with missles projected from engines of
‘war; and though oftentimes I have been hit with stones and bolts of wood for the sake of
your lives, your glory, and your wealth, Iam still leading you as conquerors over all the land
land sea, ail rivers, mountains, and plains. Ihave celebrated your weddings with my own,
and the children of many of you will be akin to my’ehildren. Moreover I have liguidated the
debts of all those who had incurred them, without inquiring too closely for what purpose
they were contracted, though you receive such high pay, and carry off so much booty
‘whenever there is booty to be got after a siege. Most of you have golden erowns, the eternal
memorials of your valour and of the honour you receive from me. Whoever has been killed,
thas met with & glorious end and has been honoured with a splendid burial. Brazen statues of
most of the slain have been erected at home," and their parents are held in honour, being
released from all public service and from taxation. But no one of you has ever been killed in 3
flight under my leadership. And now I was intending to send back those of you who are
unfit for service, objets of envy to those at home; but sinee you all wish to depart, depart
all of you! Go back and report at home that your king Alexander, the conqueror of the


Page 151, Instance 1, Class: Text
regulating its affairs, was publicly declared commander-in-chief of all the rest of Greece in
the expedition against the Persian, adding this glory not more to himself than to the
‘commonwealth of the Macedonians. These were the advantages which accrued to you from
my father Philip; great indeed if looked at by themselves, but small if compared with those
you have obiained from me. For though 1 inherited from my father only a few gold and
silver goblets, and there were not even sixty talents in the treasury, and though I found
myself charged with a debt of $00 talents owing by Philip.” and I was obliged myself to
‘borrow 800 talents in addition to these, I started from the country which could not decently
support you, and forthwith laid open to you the passage of the Hellespont, though at that
time the Persians held the sovereignty of the sea. Having overpowered the viceroys of
Darius with my cavalry, I added to your empire the whole of Toni,” the whole of Aeolis, 3
both Phrygias’”' and Lydia, and I took Miletus by siege. All the other places I gained by
Voluntary surrender, and I granted you the privilege of appropriating the wealth found in
them. The riches of Egypt and Cyrene, which I acquired without fighting a battle, have
‘come to you. Coele-Syria, Palestine, and Mesopotamia are your property. Babylon, Bactra,
and Susa are yours. The wealth of the Lydian, the treasures of the Persians, and the riches
‘of the Indians are yours; and so is the External Sea. You are viceroys, you are generals, you
are captains. What then have I reserved to myself afterall these labours, except this purple
robe and this diadem?” I have appropriated nothing myself, nor ean any one point out my
‘treasures, except these possessions of yours or the things which am guarding on your
‘bohalf*” Individually, however, I have no motive to guard them, since I feed on the same
fare as you do, and I take only the same amount of sleep. Nay, I do not think that my fare is
as good as that of those among you who live luxuriously; and I know that I often sit up at
night to watch for you, that you may be able to sleep.


Page 152, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘conquered foreigners. Pethaps this report of yours will be both glorious to you in the eyes of
men and devout forsooth in the eyes of the gods. Depart!”
CHAPTER XI.
RECONCILIATION BETWEEN ALEXANDER AND HIS ARMY.

Having thus spoken, he leaped down quickly from the platform, and entered the palace,
Where he paid no attention to the decoration of his person, nor was any of his Companions
admitted to see him. Not even on the morrow was any one of them admited to an audience:
‘but on the third day he summoned the select Persians within, and among them he distributed
‘the commands of the brigades, and made the rule that only those whom he had proclaimed
his Kinsmen," should have the honour of saluting him with kiss.” But the Macedonians
Who heard the speech were thoroughly astonished at the moment, and remained there in
silence near the platform: nor when he retired did any of them accompany the king, except
his personal Companions and the confidential body-guards. Though they remained, most of
‘them had nothing to do or say; and yet they were unwilling to retire. But when the news was
reported to them about the Persians and Medes, that the military commands were being
sven to Persians, thatthe foreign soldiers were being selected and divided into companies,
that a Persian foot-guaed, Persian foot Companions, a Persian regiment of men with silver
shields," as well a the cavalry Companions, and another royal regiment of cavalry distinet
from these, were being called by Macedonian names, they were no longer able to restrain
‘themselves; but running in a body tothe palace, they cast their weapons therein font ofthe
gates as Sign of supplication to the king. Standing in front of the gates, they shouted,
besceching to be allowed to enter, and saying that they were willing t0 surrender the men
Who had been the instigators of the disturbance on that occasion, and those who had begun
the clamour. They also declared they would not retie from the gates either day or night,
unless Alexander would take some pity upon them. When he was informed of this, he came
‘out without delay; and seeing them lying on the ground in humble guise, and hearing most
‘of them lamenting with loud voice, teas began to flow also from his own eyes. He made an
effort to say something to them, but they continued their importunate entreaties "” At length
‘one of them, Callines by name, a man conspicuous both for his age and because he was
captain of the Companion cavalry, spoke as follows:—"O king, what grieves. the
Macedonians is, that thou hast already made some of the Persians kinsmen to thyself, and
that Persians are called Alexander's Kinsmen, and have the honour of saluting thee with a
kiss; whereas none of the Macedonians have as yet enjoyed this honouw” Then Alexander
interrupting him, said:—“But all of you without exception I consider my Kinsmen, and so
from this time I shall call you.” When he had said this, Callines advanced and saluted him
with a kss, and so did all those who wished to salute him. Then they took up their weapons
and returned tothe camp, shouting and singing a song of thanksgiving to Apollo. After this,
Alexander offered ancrifice to the ode to hom it wee hia cusinm to sacrifice end eave a


Page 152, Instance 1, Class: Text
Arachotians, and Drangians; who has also acquired the rule of the Parthians, Chorasmians,
and Hyreanians, as far as the Caspian Sea; who has marched over the Caucasus, through the
Caspian Gates; who has crossed the rivers Oxus and Tanais, and the Indus besides, which
hhas never been crossed by any one else except Dionysus; who has also erossed the
Hydaspes, Acesines, and Hydraotes, and who would have crossed the Hyphasis, if you had
not shrunk back with alarm; who has penetrated into the Great Sea by both the mouths of
the Indus; who has marched through the desert of Gadrosia, where no one ever before
marched with an army; who on his route acquired possession of Carmania and the land of
the Oritians, in addition to his other conquests, his fleet having in the meantime already
sailed round the coast of the sea which extends from India to Persia—report that when you
retuned to Susa you deserted him and went away, handing him over to the protection of
‘conquered foreigners. Pechaps this report of yours will be both glorious to you in the eyes of
men and devout forsooth in the eyes ofthe gods. Depart!”


Page 153, Instance 0, Class: Text
onccce cen acne ee an annem ee en NN EE NII EES

‘of them poured out one libation, and afer it sang a song of thanksgiving to Apollo."
CHAPTER XIL
THN THoUsAND MACEDONIANS Sit HOME WITH CRATERUS—DISPUTES BETWEEN
ANTIPari AND OLYMPIAS.

‘Tue those of the Macedonians who were unfit for service on account of age or any other
misfortune, went back of theit own accord, to the number of about. 10,000. To these
‘Alexander gave the pay not only forthe time which had already elapsed, but also for that
Which they would spend in returning home. He also gave to each man a talent in addition to
his pay. If any of them had children by Asiatic wives, he ordered them to leave them
‘behind with him, lest they should introduce into Macedonia a cause of discord, taking with
them children by foreign women who were ofa different race from the children whom they
hhad left behind at home born of Macedonian mothers. He promised to take care that they
should be brought up as Macedonians, educating them not only in general matters but also
in the art of war. He also undertook to lead them into Macedonia when they arrived at
manhood, and hand them over to thei fathers. These uncertain and obscure promises were
made to them as they were departing: and he thought he was giving a most indubitable proof
of the friendship and affection he had for them by sending with them, as theie guardian and
the leader of the expedition, Craterus, the man most faithful to him, and whom he valued
equally with himself Then, having saluted them all, he with tears dismissed them
likewise weeping from his presence. He ordered Craterus® to lead these men back, and
When he had done so, 0 take upon himself the government of Macedonia, Thrace, and
‘Thessaly, and to preside over the freedom of the Greeks. He also ordered Antipater to bring
to him the Macedonians of manly age as successors to those who were being sent back. He
despatched Polysperchon also with Craterus, as his second in command, so that if any
mishap befell Craterus on the march (For he was sending him back on’ account of the
weakness of his health), those who were going might not be in need of a general.™' A seeret
report was also going about that Alexander was now overcome by his mother's accusations
‘of Antipater, and that he wished to remove him from Macedonia." This report was eurrent
among those who thought that royal aetions are more worthy of honour in proportion to
their secrecy, and who were inclined to impute what is worthy of belief to a bad motive
rather than to attribute ito the real one: a course to which they were led by appearances and. 3
their own depravity. But probably this sending for Antipater was not designed for his
dishonour, but rather to prevent any unpleasant consequences to Antipater and Olympias
from their quarrel which he might not himself be able to rectify. For they were incessantly
\riting to Alexander, the former saying that the arrogance, acerbity, and meddlesomeness of
‘Olympias was exceedingly unbecoming to the king's mother; insomuch that Alexander was
related to have used the following remark in reference to the reports which he received
about his mother:—that she was exacting fiom him a heavy house-rent for the ten
months.® The queen wrote that Antipater was overweeningly insolent in his pretensions
and in the service of his cour, no longer remembering the one who had appointed him, but
claiming to win and hold the frst rank**” among the Macedonians and Greeks. These


Page 153, Instance 1, Class: Text
Public banquet, over which he himself presided, with the Macedonians sitting around him;
and next to them the Persians; after whom eame the men ofthe other nations, honoured for
thee personal rank oF for some meritorious action. The king and his guests drew wine from

the same bowl and poured out the same libations, both the Grecian prophets and the
Mapians commencing the ceremony. He prayed for other blessings, and especially that 39
hharmony and community of rule might exist between the Macedonians and Persians. The
common account is, tha those who took part inthis Banquet were 9.000 in number, that all

of them poured out one Iibation, and ater it sanga song of thanksgiving to Apollo."


Page 154, Instance 0, Class: Text
Favour with fim than before.
CHAPTER XIIL
Tite NISAEAN PLAIN—THE AMAZONS
Ir is said that Hephaestion much against his will yielded to this argument and was
reconciled to Eumenes, who on his part wished to settle the dispute." In this journey”
‘Alexander is said to have seen the plain which was devoted to the royal mares. Herodotus
says that the plain itself was named Nisaean, and that the mares were called Nisaean"”;
adding that in olden times there were 150,000 of these horses. But at ths time Alexander
found not many above 50,000; for most of them had been carried off by robbers. They say
that Atropates, the viceroy of Media, gave him a hundred women, saying that they were of
the race of Amazons”? These had been equipped with the arms of male horsemen, except
that they carried axes instead of spears and targets instead of shields. They also say that they
hhad the right breast smaller than the left, and that they exposed it in battle. Alexander
dismissed them from the army, that no attempt to violate them might be made by the
Macedonians or barbarians; and he ordered them to carry word to their queen that he was. 3
coming to her in order to procreate children by het.” But this story has been recorded
neither by Aristobulus nor Ptolemy, nor any other writer who is @ tustworthy authority on
such matters. Ido not even think thatthe race of Amazons was surviving at that time: for
before Alexander's time they were not mentioned even by Xenophon,” who mentions the
Phasians, Colehians, and all the other barbaric raees which the Greeks came upon, when
they started from Trapezus or before they marched down to Trapezus. They would certainly
have fallen in with the Amazons if they were sill in existence. However it does not seem to
me eredible that this race of women was altogether fictitious, because it has been celebrated
bby so many famous poets. For the general account i, that Heracles marched against them
and brought the girdle of their queen Hippolyte into Greece.™* The Athenians also under
‘Theseus were the first to conquer and repulse these women as they were advancing into
Europe"; and the battle of the Athenians and Amazons has been painted by Micon,””” no
less than that of the Athenians and Persians. Herodotus also has frequently written about
these women'®*; and so have the Athenian writers who have honoured the men who
perished in war with funeral orations. They have mentioned the exploit of the Athenians
against the Amazons as one of their special glories."” If therefore Atropates showed any
‘equestrian women to Alexander, think he must have shown him some other foreign women
trained in horsemanship, and equipped with the arms which were said to be those of the
Amazons.”
CHAPTER XIV.


Page 154, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XIV.
Dexrit or Hrpuarstion
In Bebatana Alexander offered sacrifice according to his custom, for good fortune; and he
celebrated a gymnastic and musical contest. He also held drinking parties with is
‘Companions. At this time Hephaestion fell sick; and they say that the stadium was full of
people on the seventh day of his fever, for on that day there was a gymnastic contest for
boys. When Alexander was informed that Hephaestion was ina critical state, he went to him
‘without delay, but found him no longer alive.” Different authors have given different


Page 154, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘were more formidable in regard to the regal dignity. However no overt act or word of the
kking was reported, from which any one could infer that Antipater was in any way less in
favour with him than before."


Page 155, Instance 0, Class: Text
accounts of Nexander Ss griet on Bus occasion, Sub Mey agree in Bus, Mak ils griet was”

‘reat, As to what was done in honour of Hephaestion, they make diverse statements, just as
each writer was actuated by good-will or envy towards him, of even towards Alexander
himself, Of the authors who have made these reckless statements, some seem to me to have
‘thought that whatever Alexander said or did to show his excessive grief for the man who
was the dearest to im in the world, redounds to his own honour; whereas others seem to
hhave thought that it rather tended to his disgrace, as being conduct unbecoming to any king
and especially to Alexander. Some say that he lay prostate on his companion’s body forthe
‘seater part of that day, bewailing him and refusing to depart from him, until he was forcibly
carried away by his Companions. Others that he lay upon the body the whole day and night
(Others again say that he hanged the physician Glaueias, for having indiscreetly given the
medicine; while others affirm that he, being a spectator of the games, neglected
Hephaestion, who was filled with wine. That Alexander should have eut off his hair in
hhonour of the dead man, {do not think improbable, both for other reasons and especially
from a desiee to imitate Achilles, whom from his boyhood he had an ambition to rival.”
Others also say that Alexander himself at oe time drove the chariot on which the body was
‘bore; but this statement I by no means believe. Others again affirm that he ordered the
shrine of Asclepius in Ecbatana to be razed to the ground; which was an act of barbarism,
and by no means in harmony with Alexander's general behaviour, but rather in accordance
With the arrogance of Xerxes in his dealings with the deity, who is said to have let fettrs
down into the Hellespont, in order to punish it forsooth.” But the following statement,
Which has been recorded, does not seem to me entirely beyond the range of probability —
that when Alexander was marching to Babylon, he was met on the road by many embassies
from Greece, among which were some Epidaurian envoys, who obtained from him their
requests." He also gave them an offering to be conveyed to Asclepius, adding tis tema:
—*Although Asclepius has not treated me faitly, in not saving the life of my Companion,
whom I valued equally with my own head." It has been stated by most writers that he
‘ordered honours to be always paid to Hephaestion asa hero; and some say that he even sent
men to Ammon’s temple to ask the god iit were allowable to offer sacrifice to Hephaestion
a a god; but Ammon replied that it was not allowable. ll the authorities, however, agree as
to the following facts:—that until the thitd day after Hephaestion’s death, Alexander neither
tasted food nor paid any attention to his personal appearance, but lay on the ground either
‘bewailing or silently mourning: that he also ordered a funeral pyre to be prepared for him in
Babylon at the expense of 10,000 talents; some say at a still greater cost” that a decree
was published throughout all the barbarian territory for the observance of a public
mourning." Many of Alexander's Companions dedicated themselves and theie arms to the
dead Hephaestion in order to show their respect to him; and the frst to begin the artifice
was Eumenes, whom we a short time ago mentioned as having been at variance with him.”
This he did that Alexander might not think he was pleased at Hephaestion’s death,
‘Alexander did not appoint any one else to be commander of the Companion eavalry in the
place of Hephaestion, so thatthe name of that general might not perish from the brigades but
that division of eavalry was stil called Hephaestion’s and the figure made from Hephaestion
went in front of it. He also resolved to celebrate a gymnastic and musical contest, much
more magnificent than any of the preceding, both in the multitude of competitors and in the
amount of money expended upon it. For he provided 3,000 competitors in all; and it is said
that these men a short time after also competed in the games held at Alexander's own
funeral


Page 156, Instance 0, Class: Text
from it, under such circumstances his Companions had less difficulty in rousing him to
action. Then at length he made an expedition against the Cossaeans,”” a warlike race
bordering on the territory ofthe Uxians. They are mountaineets, inhabiting trong positions
in separate villages. Whenever a force approached them, they were in the habit of retiing to
the summits of their mountains, either in a body oF separately as each man found it
practicable; and thus they escaped, making it dificult for those who attacked them with
their forces to come near them. Afier the enemy’s departure, they used to turn themselves
again to marauding, by which occupation they supported themselves. But Alexander
subdued this race, though he marched against them in the winter; for neither winter nor
ruggedness of ground was any impediment either to him or to Ptolemy, son of Lagus, who
led a part of the army in the campaign against them. Thus no military enterprise which
‘Alexander undertook was ever unsuccessful. As he was marching back to Babylon, he was
met by embassies from the Libyans, who congratulated him and crowned him as conqueror
of the kingdom of Asia." From Italy also came Bruttians, Lucanians, and Tyethenians”” as
envoys, forthe same purpose. The Carthaginians are said to have sent an embassy to him at
this time?” and itis also asserted that envoys came 10 request his friendship from the
Ethiopians, the Seythians of Europe, the Gauls, and Iberians—nations whose names were
heard and their accoutrements seen then for the first time by Greeks and Macedonians. They
are also said to have entrusted to Alexander the duty of settling their disputes with each
‘other. Then indeed it was especially evident both to himself and to those about him that he
was lord of all the land and sea." Of the men who have written the history of Alexander,
Aristus and Asclepiades” alone say thatthe Romans also sent an embassy to him, and that
When he met their embassy, he predicted something of the future power of Rome, observing
both the attire of the men, thei love of labour, and their devotion to freedom. At the same
time he made urgent inquities about their political constitution. This incident 1 have
recorded neither as certainly authentic nor as altogether incredible: but none of the Roman
writers have made any mention of this embassy having been despatched to Alexander; nor
of those who have waitten an aecount of Alexander's actions, has either Ptolemy, son of
LLagus, or Aristobulus mentioned it. With these authors | am generally inclined to agree. Nor
does it sem likely that the Roman republic, which was at that time remarkable for its love
of liberty, would send an embassy to a foreign king, especially to a place so far away from
their own land, when they were not compelled to do s0 by fear or any hope of advantage,
‘being possessed as they were beyond any other people by hatred tothe very name and race
of despots.”
CHAPTER XVI


Page 156, Instance 1, Class: Text
CHAPTER XVI
EXPLORATION OF THE CasttAn.— Tite CHALDAEAN SoOTHSWERS.
‘Arrer this, Alexander sent Heracles, son of Argaeus, into Hyreania in command of a
‘company of shipwrights, with orders to eut timber feom the Hyrcanian mountains and with
ito construct a number of ships of wat, some without decks and others with decks after the
Grecian fashion of ship-building.""” For he was very desirous of discovering with what sea
‘the one called the Hyreanian or Caspian unites; whether it communicates with the water of
‘the Euxine Sea, or whether the Great Sea comes right round from the Easter Sea, which is
near India and flows up into the Hyteanian Gulf; just as he had discovered that the Persian
Sea, which was called the Red Sea, is really a gulf of the Great Sea.” For the sources of the
Caspian Sea had not yet been discovered, although many nations dwell around it, and
navigable rivers discharge their waters into it From Bactria, the Oxus, the largest of Asiatic
rivers, those of India excepted, discharges ise into this sea”; and through Seythia flows
the Jaxartes."” The general account is thatthe Araxes also, which flows from Armenia,


Page 157, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Tu Abvicr oF nit CuaLpess REsEcrED.
Bur he had a suspicion thatthe Chaldacans were trying to prevent his entrance into Babylon
at that time with reference rather to their own advantage than 10 the declaration of the
oracle. For in the middle of the city of the Babylonians was the temple of Belus.* an
edifice very great in size, constructed of baked bricks which were cemented together wth,
bitumen. This temple had been razed to the ground by Xerxes, when he returned from
Greece; as were also all the other sacred buildings of the Babylonians. Some say that
‘Alexander bad formed the resolution to eebuild it upon the former foundations; and for this
reason he ordered the Babylonians to cary away the mound, Others say that he intended to
‘build still larger one than that which formerly existed.” But after his departure, the men
Who had been entrusted with the work prosecuted it without any vigour, so that he
determined to employ the whole of his army in completing it. A great quantity of land as
well as gold had been dedicated to the god Belus by the Assyrian kings: and in olden times
the temple was kept in repair and sacrifices were offered to the god. But at that time the
Chaldaeans were appropriating the property of the god, since nothing existed upon which
the revenues could be expended. Alexander suspected that they did not wish him to enter
Babylon for this reason, for fea that ina short time the temple Would be finished, and they
should be deprived of the gains accruing from the money. And yet, according to Arstobulus,
hhe was willing to yield to their persuasions so far atleast as fo change the diretion of his
entry into the city. For this purpose, onthe first day he encamped near the river Euphrates,
and on the nextday he marched along the bank, Keeping the rver on his ight hand, wih the
intention of passing beyond the part of the city tuned towards the west, and there wheeling
round to lea his army towards the east. But on account of the difficulty of the ground he
could not march with bis army in this diection; because if a man who is entering the city
fiom the west, here changes his direction eastward, he comes upon ground covered with


Page 157, Instance 1, Class: Text
ee eee eee eet ene ae eee th ae
ull, as it seems, in the country of the Nomadic Scythians, a district which is quite
unknown.

When Alexander had crossed the river Tigres with his army and was marching 10
Babylon, he was met by the Chaldacan philosophers": who, having led him away from his
‘Companions, besoughit him to suspend his march to that ety. For they said that an oracular
declaration had been made to them by the god Belus, that his entrance into Babylon at that
time would not be for his good. But he answered their speech with a line from the poet
Euripides to this effect: “He the best prophet is that guesses well But said the
‘Chaldaeans:—“O king, do not at any rate enter the city looking towards the west, nor
leading the army advancing in that direction; but rather go right round towards the eas.”
But this did not tum out to be easy for him, on account of the difficulty of the ground: for
the deity was leading him to the place where entering he was doomed soon to die. And
perhaps it was better for him to be taken off in the very acme of his glory as well as ofthe
affection entertained for him by men, before any of the vieisstudes natural to man befell
him. Probably this was the reason Solon advised Croesus to look at the end of a long life,
and not before pronounce any man happy. Yea indeed, Hephaestion’s death had been no
small misfortune to Alexander, and I think he would rather have departed before it oceurred
than have been alive to experience it; no less than Achilles, as it seems to me, would rather
have died before Patroclus than have been the avenger of his death

CHAPTER XVIL
‘Tue Apvicr oF tie Cuat res Resecre.
Bur he had a suspicion thatthe Chaldaeans were trying to prevent his entrance into Babylon
at that time with reference rather to their own advantage than to the declaration of the
‘oracle. For in the middle of the city of the Babylonians was the temple of Belus.”° an
edifice very great in size, constructed of baked bricks which were cemented together with
bitumen. This temple had been razed to the ground by Xerxes, when he returned from
Greece: as were also all the other sacred buildings of the Babylonians. Some say that
‘Alexander had formed the resolution t rebuild it upon the former foundations: and for this,
reason he ordered the Babylonians to carry away the mound. Others say that e intended to
build still larger one than that which formerly existed.” But after his departure, the men
Who hhad been entrusted with the work prosecuted it without any vigour, so that he
determined to employ the whole of his army in completing it. A great quantity of land as
well as gold had been dedicated o the god Belus by the Assyrian kings: and in olden times
the temple was kept in repair and sacrifices were offered to the god. But at that time the
‘Chaldaeans were appropriating the property of the god, since nothing existed upon which
the revenues could be expended. Alexander suspected that they did not wish him to enter
Babylon for this reason, for fear that in a short time the temple would be finished, and they


Page 157, Instance 2, Class: Text
falls into the same sea." These are the largest; but many others flow into these, while
‘others again discharge themselves directly into this sea. Some of these were known to those
who visited these nations with Alexander; others are situated towards the farther sie of the
ull, as it seems, in the country of the Nomadic Scythians, a district which is quite
unknown.

When Alexander had crossed the river Tigres with his army and was marching 10
Babylon, he was met by the Chaldacan philosophers": who, having led him away from his
‘Companions, besoughit him to suspend his march to that ety. For they said that an oracular
declaration had been made to them by the god Belus, that his entrance into Babylon at that
time would not be for his good. But he answered their speech with a line from the poet
Euripides to this effect: “He the best prophet is that guesses well But said the
‘Chaldaeans:—“O king, do not at any rate enter the city looking towards the west, nor
leading the army advancing in that direction; but rather go right round towards the eas.”
But this did not tum out to be easy for him, on account of the difficulty of the ground: for
the deity was leading him to the place where entering he was doomed soon to die. And
perhaps it was better for him to be taken off in the very acme of his glory as well as ofthe
affection entertained for him by men, before any of the vieisstudes natural to man befell
him. Probably this was the reason Solon advised Croesus to look at the end of a long life,
and not before pronounce any man happy. Yea indeed, Hephaestion’s death had been no
small misfortune to Alexander, and I think he would rather have departed before it oceurred
than have been alive to experience it; no less than Achilles, as it seems to me, would rather
have died before Patroclus than have been the avenger of his death


Page 158, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XVIIL
PREDICTIONS oF ALEXANDER’S DEATH.
Morrover Aistobulus has recorded the following story. Apotlodorus the Amphipolitan, one
of Alexander's Companions, was general ofthe army which the king left with Mazaeus, the
Viceroy of Babylon.””” When he joined his forees with the king’s on the return of the later
from India, and observed that he was severely punishing the viceroys who had been placed
‘over the several countries, he sent to his brother Peithagoras and asked him to divine about
his safety. For Peithagoras was a diviner who derived his knowledge of the future from the
inspection of the inward parts of animals. This man sent back to Apollodorus, inquiring of
whom he was so especialy afraid, as to wish to consult divination, The ltter wrote back:
“The_king himself and Hephaestion.” Peithagoras therefore in the first place offered
sacrifice with reference to Hephaestion. But as there was no lobe visible upon the iver of
‘the sacrificial victim," he stated tis fact ina letter, which he sealed and sent to is brother
from Babylon to Ecbatana, explaining that there was no reason at all to be afiaid of
Heephaestion, for in a short time he would be out of their way. And Aristobulus says that
Apollodorus received this epistle only one day before Hephaestion died. Then Peithagoras
‘again offered sacrifice in respect to Alexander, and the liver of the vietim consulted in
respect to him was also destitute of a lobe. He therefore wrote to Apollodorus to the same
‘purport about Alexander as about Hephaestion. Apollodorus did not conceal the information
Sent to him, but told Alexander, in order the more to show his good-will to the king, if he
urged him to be on his guard lest some danger might befall him at that time. And
Aristobulus says thatthe king commended Apollodorus, and when he entered Babylon, he
asked Peithagoras what sign he had met with, o induce him to write thus to his brother: He
said that the liver of the victim sacrificed for him was without a lobe. When Alexander
asked what the sign portended, he said that it was a very disastrous one. The king was so far
from being angry with him, that he even treated him with greater respect, fr telling him the
‘ruth without any disguise. Aristobulus says that he himself heard this story from
Peithagoras; and adds that the same man acted as diviner for Perdiceas and afterwards for
‘Antigonus, and that the same sign occurred for both. It was verified by fact; for Perdiccas
lost his life leading an army against Ptolemy.” and Antigonus was killed in the batle
fought by him at Ipsus against Seleucus and Lysimachus.” Also concerning Calanus, the
Indian philosopher, the following story has been recorded. When he was going tothe funeral
pyte to die, he gave the parting salutation to all his other companions; but he refused to
approach Alexander to give him the salutation, saying he would meet him at Babylon and 4
there salute him. At the time indeed this remark was treated with neglect; but afterwards,
When Alexander had died at Babylon, it came to the recollection of those who had head it,
and they thought forsooth that it was a divine intimation of Alexander's approaching end.
CHAPTER XIX.


Page 158, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHAPTER XIX.
EMBASSIES FROM GREECE. FLEET PREPARED FOR INVADING ARABI.
‘As he was entering Babylon, he was met by embassies from the Greeks; but for what
purpose each embassy was sent has not been recorded.” To me indeed it seems probable
that most of them came to crown and eulogize him on account of his victories, especially
the Indian ones, as well as to say that the Greeks rejoiced at his safe return from India. Its


Page 159, Instance 0, Class: Text
Greece to Babylon, Pasargadae, Susa, or any other place in Asi. In this way itis said that
the brazen statues of Harmodius and Aristogeton,””* as well as the monument of the
‘Celeacan Artemis, were carried back to Athens.”

‘Aristobulus says that he found at Babylon the fleet with Nearchus, which had sailed
from the Persian Sea up the river Euphrates; and another which had been conveyed from 4
Phoenicia, consisting of two Phoenician quinqueremes, three quadriremes, twelve tiremes,
and thirty triacontors. These had been taken to pieces and conveyed to the river Euphrates
from Phoenicia to the city of Thapsacus. There they were joined together again and sailed
down to Babylon. The same writer says that he cut down the eypresses in Babylonia and
with them built another leet fr in the and of the Assyrians these trees alone are abundant,
but of the other things necessary for ship-building this country affords no supply.
multitude of purple-fishers and other sea-faring men came to him from Phoenicia and the
rest of the seaboard to serve as crews forthe ships and perform the other services on board
‘Near Babylon he made a harbour by excavation large enough to afford anchorage to 1,000
ships of war; and adjoining the harbour he made dockyards. Miecalus the Clazomenian’™*
was despatched to Phoenicia and Syria with S00 talents”* to enlist some men and to
purchase others who were experienced in nautical affairs. For Alexander designed to
colonize the seaboard near the Persian Gulf, as well s the islands in that sea. For he thought
‘that this land would become no less prosperous than Phoenicia. He made these preparations
‘of the fleet to attack the main body of the Arabs,” under the pretext that they were the only
barbarians of this region who had not sent an embassy 10 him or done anything else
‘becoming their postion and showing respect to him. But the tuth was, as it seems to me,
that Alexander was insatiably ambitious of acquiring fresh territory.”

F
CHAPTER XX.
DescRiPTioy oF ARAMIA.—Vowwci oF NEARCHUS.
‘Tue common report is, that he heard that the Arabs venerated only two gods, Uranus and
Dionysus": the former because he is visible and contains in himself the heavenly
luminaries, especially the sun, from which emanates the greatest and most evident benefit to
all things human; and the latter on account of the fame he acquired by his expedition into


Page 159, Instance 1, Class: Text
DescRiPTioy oF ARAMIA.—Vowwci oF NEARCHUS.
‘Tue common report is, that he heard that the Arabs venerated only two gods, Uranus and
Dionysus": the former because he is visible and contains in himself the heavenly
luminaries, especially the sun, from which emanates the greatest and most evident benefit to
all things human; and the latter on aecount of the fame he acquired by his expedition into
India. Therefore he thought himself quite worthy to be considered by the Arabs as a third
‘god, since he had performed deeds by no means inferior to those of Dionysus. If then he
could conquer the Arabs, he intended to grant them the privilege of conducting their
‘government according to their own customs, as he had already done to the Indians. The
fertility of the land was a secret indueement to him to invade it because he heard that the
people obtained cassia fiom the lakes, and myrth and frankincense from the trees: that
<innamon was eut from the shrubs, and that the meadows produce spikenard without any
cultivation.” As tothe siz of the country, he was informed thatthe seaboard of Arabia was
not less in extent than that of India; that nea it lie many islands; that in all pats of the
country there were harbours sufficiently commodious to provide anchorage for his leet, and
that it supplied sites for founding cities, which would become flourishing. He was also
informed that there were two islands in the sea facing the mouth of the Euphrates, the first
‘of which was not far from the place where the waters of that river are discharged into the
sea, being about 120 stades"® distant from the shore and the river's mouth. This is the
smaller of the two, and was densely covered with every kind of timber. In it was also a
temple of Artemis, around which the inhabitants themselves spent their lives. The island
was devoted to the use of wild goats and stags, which were allowed to range at large as


Page 160, Instance 0, Class: Text
sacrifice tothe goddess; and for this purpose alone it was lawful to chase them. Aristobulus
says that Alexander ordered this island to be called Tearus, afer the island so named in the
‘Aegean Sea," on which, as the report goes, Icarus, son of Daedalus fell, when the wax, by
Which the wings had been fastened to him, melted. For he did not fly near the earth,
according to his father’s injunctions, but senselessly flying far aloft he allowed the sun to
sofien and loosen the wax. Iearus left his name to the island and the sea the former being
called Icarus and the latter the Tear. The other island was said to be distant from the
mouth ofthe Euphrates about a day and night’s voyage fora ship running before the breeze.
Tis name was Tylus”; it was large and most of it nether rugged nor woody, but suitable for
producing cultivated fruits and all things in due season. Some of this information was
imparted to Alexander by Archias, who Was sent with a triacontor to investigate the course
of the coasting voyage to Arabia, and who went as far as the island of Tylus, but durst not
‘pass beyond that point. Androsthenes”* was despatched with another triacontor and sailed
{oa part ofthe peninsula of Arabia. Hieron of Soli the pilot also received a triacontor ftom 4
‘Alexander and advanced farthest of those whom he despatched to this region; for he had
received instructions to sail round the whole Arabian peninsula as far as the Arabian Gulf
near Egypt over against Heroipolis.” Although he coasted along the country of the Arabs
to a great distance, he durst not go as far as he was ordered; but returning to Alexander he
reported thatthe size of the peninsula was marvellous, being only a litle smaller than the
country ofthe Indians and its extremity projected far into the Great Sea. Nearchus indeed
in his voyage from India had seen this stretching out alittle, before he turned aside into the
Persian Gulf, and he was almost induced to cross over to it. The pilot Onesicrtus thought
‘they ought to have gone thither; but Nearchus says that he himself prevented it, so that after
sailing Fight round the Persian Gulf he might be able o give a report to Alexander that he
hhad accomplished the voyage on which he had sent him. For Nearchus said he had not been
despatched to navigate the Great Sea, but to explore the land bordering on the sea, to find
‘out what men inhabit it, to discover the harbours and rivers in it, to ascertain the eustoms of
the people, and to see if any of the country was fertile and if any was sterile. This was the
reason why Alexander's naval expedition returned in safety; for if it had sailed beyond the
deserts of Arabia, it would not have returned in safety. This is said also to have been the
reason why Hieron turned back."
‘
CHAPTER XXL.
DescRiPTion oF THE EUPHRATES AND THE PALLACOPAS

Wine the triremes were being built for him, and the harbour near Babylon was being
excavated, Alexander sailed from Babylon down the Euphrates to what was called the river
Pallacopas, which i distant from Babylon about 800 stades."” This Pallacopas is nota river
rising from springs, but a canal cut from the Euphrates. For that river flowing from the
Armenian mountains, proceeds within its banks inthe season of winter, because its water
is scanty; but when the spring begins to make its appearance, and especially just before the
summer solstice, it pours along with mighty stream and overflows its banks into the
Assyrian country For at that season the snow upon the Armenian mountains melts and
swells its water t0 a great degree; and a its stream flows high above the level of the
country, it would flow over the land if some one had not furnished it with an outlet along the
Pallacopas and turned it aside into the marshes and pools, which, beginning from this canal,
‘extend as far a the country contiguous to Arabia. Thence it spreads out far and wide into a
Shallow lake, from which i falls into the sea by many invisible mouths. After the snow has
melted, about the time of the seting of the Pleiades, the Euphrates flows with a small
stream: but none the less the greater part of it discharges itself into the pools along the


Page 161, Instance 0, Class: Text
informed of this, he was induced to confer a benefit upon the land of Assyria. He
determined to shut up the outlet where the stream of the Euphrates was tured into the
Pallacopas. When he had advanced about thirty stades, the earth appeared to be somewhat
rocky, so that if it were cut through and a junction made with the old canal along the
Pallacopas, on account ofthe hardness of the soi, it would not allow the water to percolate,
and there Would be no difficulty in turning it back atthe appointed season. For this purpose
he sailed to the Pallacopas, and then continued his voyage down that canal into the pools
towards the country of the Arabs. There seeing a certain admirable site, he founded a city
upon it and fortified it. In it he settled as many of the Grecian mereenaries as volunteered to
remain, and such as were unfit for military service by reason of age or wounds,
(CHAPTER XXIL

AN OMEN oF ALEXANDER’S APPROACHING DEATH
Hing thus proved the falsity of the prophecy of the Chaldacans, by not having
experienced any unpleasant fortune in Babylon,” as they had predicted, but having *!
marched out of that ety without suffering any mishap, be grew confident in spirit and sailed
again through the marshes, having Babylon on his let hand. Here a part of his fleet lst its
‘way inthe narrow branches of the river through want of a pilot, until he sent a man to pilot
it and lead it back into the channel of the river. The following story is told. Most of the
tombs of the Assyrian kings had been built among the pools and marshes.*! When
‘Alexander was sailing through these marshes, and, as the story goes, was himself steering
the treme, a strong gust of wind fell upon his broad-brimmed Macedonian hat, and the
fillet which encircled it. The hat, being heavy, fell into the water; but the fillet, being carried
along by the wind, was caught by one of the reeds growing near the tomb of one of the
ancient kings." This incident itself was an omen of what was about to occur, and so was
‘the fact that one of the sailors”* swam off towards the fillet and snatched it fom the reed,
But he did not carry it in his hands, because it would have been wetted while he was
swimming: he therefore put it round his own head and thus conveyed it tothe king. Most of
the biographers of Alexander say thatthe king presented him with a talent as a reward for 4
his zeal, and then ordered his head to be eut off: as the prophets had directed him not to
permit that head to be safe which had worn the royal fillet. However, Aristobulus says that
the man received a talent; but afterwards also received a scourging for placing the fillet
round his head. The same author says that it was one of the Phoenician sailors who fetched
the fillet for Alexander; but there are some who say it was Seleucus, and that this was an
‘omen to Alexander of his death and to Seleucus of his great kingdom. For that of all those
‘who succeeded to the sovereignty after Alexander, Seleueus became the greatest king, was
‘the most kingly in mind, and ruled over the greatest extent of land after Alexander himself,
does not seem to me to admit of question.”


Page 161, Instance 1, Class: Text
Pallacopas. Unless, therefore, some one had dammed up the Pallacopas again, so that the 4
Water might be turned back within the banks and carried down the channel of the river, it
would have drained the Euphrates imo itself, and consequently the Assyrian country would
not be watered by it. But the outlet of the Euphrates into the Pallacopas was dammed up by
the viceroy of Babylonia with great labour (although it was an easy matter to construct the
outlet), because the ground in this region is slimy and most of it mud, so that when it has
fonce received the water of the river itis not easy to turn it back. But more than 10,000
‘Assyrians were engaged in this labour even until the third month. When Alexander was
informed of this, he was induced to confer a benelit upon the land of Assyria, He
determined to shut up the outlet where the stream of the Euphrates was tured into the
Pallacopas. When he had advanced about thirty stades, the earth appeared to be somewhat
rocky, $0 that if it were cut through and a junction made with the old canal along the
Pallacopas, on account ofthe hardness of the soil, it would not allow the water to percolate,
and there Would be no difficulty in turning it back atthe appointed season. For this purpose
he sailed to the Pallacopas, and then continued his voyage down that canal into the pools
towards the country of the Arabs. There seeing a certain admirable site, he founded a city
upon it and fortified it In it he settled as many of the Grecian mercenaries as volunteered to
remain, and such as were unfit for military service by reason of age or wounds.


Page 162, Instance 0, Class: Text
Wate he retuned to Babylon he found that Peucestas had arrived from Persis, bringing
with him 20,000 Persians, as well as many Cossaeans and Tapurians, because these races
were reported to be the most warlike of those bordering on Persis. Philoxenus also came to
him, bringing an army from Caria; Menander, with another feom Lydia, and Menidas with
the cavalry which had been put under his command. * At the same time arrived embassies
from Greece, the members of which, with crowns upon their own heads, approached
‘Alexander and erowned him with golden crowns, a if forsooth they came to him as special
‘envoys deputed to pay him divine honours; and his end was not far of. Then he commended 4
the Persians for their great zeal towards him, which was shown by their obedience to
Peucestas in all things, and Peucestas himself forthe prudence which he had displayed in
ruling them. He distributed these foreign soldiers among the Macedonian ranks in the
following way. Each company was led by a Macedonian decurion, and next to him was a
Macedonian receiving double pay for distinguished valour; and then came one who received
ten states,” who was so named from the pay he received, being less than that received by
‘the man with double pay, but more than that of the men who were serving as soldiers
Without holding a position of honour. Next to these came twelve Persians, and last in the
company another Macedonian, who also received the pay of ten staters; so that in each
‘company there were twelve Persians and four Macedonians, three of whom received higher
pay, and the fourth was in command of the company.”*” The Macedonians were armed in
their hereditary manner; but of the Persians some were archers, while others had javelins
furnished with straps, by which they were held" At this time Alexander often reviewed his
fleet, had many sham-fights with his tiremes and quadriremes in the river, and contests
both for rowers and pilots, the winners receiving crowns.

‘Now arrived the special envoys whom he had despatched to Ammon to inquire how it
as lal for him to honour Hephaestion. They told him that Ammon said it was lal to
offer sacrifice to him as to hero. Rejoicing atthe response of the oracle, he paid respect to
hhim as a hero ftom that time. He also despatched a letter to Cleomenes, who was a bad man
and had committed many acts of injustice in Egypt.” For my own part Ido not blame him
for his friendship to Hephaestion and for his recollection of him even when dead: but I do
blame him for many other acts. For the letter commanded Cleomenes to prepare chapels for
the hero Hephaestion in the Egyptian Alexandeia, one in the city itself and another in the
island of Pharos, where the tower is situated The chapels were to be exceedingly large
and to be built at lavish expense. The letter also directed that Cleomenes should take care
that Hephaestion’s name should be attached to them; and moreover that his name should be
engraved on all the legal documents with which the merchants entered into bargains with
cach other." These things [cannot blame, except that he made so much ado about matters
of trifling moment. But the following I must blame severely: “If I find,” said the letter, “the
temples and chapels of the hero Hephaestion in Egypt well completed, I will not only
pardon you any erimes you may have committed in the past, but in the future you shall
suffer no unpleasant treatment from me, however great may be the erimes you have
committed.” I cannot commend this message sent from a great king to a man who was
ruling a large country and many people, especially as the man was a wieked one."

i
CHAPTER XXIV,
ANoritER Owen oF ALEXANDER’S DEATH,
Bur Alexander’s own end was now near. Aristobulus says that the following occurrence was


Page 163, Instance 0, Class: Text
ELAN AAN.
"AurxaNpen Suzi war FEVER

“Tue Royal Diary gives the following account" othe effet that he revelled and drank at
the dwelling of Mediu; then rose up, took bath, and slept; then again supped at the house
‘of Medius and again drank till far into the night After retiring from the drinking party he
took a bat; afer which he took afte food and slept there, because he already fet feverish
He was caried out upon a couch to the sactifices, in order that he might offer them
according to his daily custom. After performing the sacred rites he lay down in the
‘banqueting hall until dusk. In the meantime he gave instructions to the officers about the
expedition and voyage, ordering those who were going on foot to be ready on the fourth
Akay, and those who were going to sail with him tobe ready to sail onthe ff day From this
place he was carried upon the couch othe sver, where he embarked in a boat and sailed
Across the river tothe park. There he again took a bath and went 0 rest.

‘On the following day he tok another bath and offered the customary sacrifices. He then
centered a tester bod, lay down, and chatted with Medvs. He also ordered his ices to
meet him at daybreak. Having done this he ae a litle supper and was again conveyed into
the tester bed. The fever now raged the whole night without intermission. The next day he
took a bath; after which he offered sacrifice, and gave orders to Nearchus and the other
officers thatthe voyage should begin on the third day. The next day be bathed again and
offered the prescribed sacrifices. Aer performing the sacred rites, he did not yet cease to
sulle from the fever. Notwithstanding this, he summoned the officers and gave them
instructions to have all things ready for the starting ofthe Meet. Inthe evening he took a
bath, after which he was very ill The next day he was wansfered t0 the house near the
swimming-bath, where he offered the prescribed sacrifices. Though he was now very
dangerously il, he summoned the most responsible of his officers and gave them fresh
instructions about the voyage. On the following day he was with difficulty caried out tthe
sacrifices, which he offered: and none the less gave other orders to the officers about the
voyage. The nextday, though he was now very ill he offered the prescribed sacrifices. He


Page 163, Instance 1, Class: Text
sea,"*" among the Macedonian lines, and becoming thirsty he retired from his seat and thus
left the royal throne empty. On each side of the throne were couches with silver fet, upon
Which his personal Companions were sitting. A certain man of obscure condition (some say
that he was even one of the men kept under guard without being in chains), seeing the
throne and the couches empty, and the eunuchs standing round the throne (for the
‘Companions also rose up from their seats with the king when he retired), walked through
the line of eunuchs, ascended the throne, and sat down upon it" According to a Persian
lay, they did not make him rise from the throne: but rent their garments and beat their
‘breasts and faces as if on account ofa great evil

When Alexander was informed ofthis, he ordered the man who had sat upon his throne
tbe put to the torture, withthe view of discovering whether he had done this according to
plan concerted by a conspiracy. But the man confessed nothing, except that it came into his
mind at the time to act thus. Even more for this reason the diviners explained that this
‘occurrence boded no good to him. A few days after this, after offering to the gods the
‘customary sacrifices for good suecess, and certain others also for the purpose of divination,
hhe was feasting with his fiends, and was drinking far into the night." He is also said to
hhave distributed the sacrificial victims as well as a quantity of wine tothe army throughout
the companies and centuries. There are some who have recorded that he wished to rete
after the drinking party to his bed-chamber; but Medius, at that time the most influential of
the Companions, met him and begged him to join a party of revellers at his residence,
saying that the revel would be a pleasant one.


Page 164, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXVL.
‘AurxaNpeR’s Dear

Suc is the account given in the Royal Diary. In addition to this, it states that the soldiers
‘were very desirous of seeing him; some, in order to see him once more while still alive;
others, because there was a repoft that he was already dead, imagined that his death was
‘being eoncealed by the confidential body-guards, as I for my part suppose. Most of them
‘through grief and affection for their king forced their way in to see him. Itis said that when
his soldiers passed by him he was unable to speak: yet he greeted each of them with his
right hand, raising his head with difficulty and making a sign with his eyes. The Royal
Diary also says that Peithon, Attalus, Demophon, and Peucestas, as well as Cleomenes,
Menidas, and Seleucus, slept in the temple of Serapis,"" and asked the god whether it
‘would be better and more desirable for Alexander to be carried into his temple, in onder as 3
suppliant to be cured by him. A voice issued from the god saying that he was not to be
carried into the temple, but that it would be better for him to remain where he was. This
answer was reported by the Companions; and soon ater Alexander died as if forsooth this,
‘were now the better thing. Neither Aristobulus nor Ptolemy has given an account differing +
much feom the preceding. Some authors, however, have related that his Companions asked
him to whom he left his kingdom; and that he replied: “To the best Others say, that in
addition to this remark, he told them that he saw there would be a great funeral contest held
in his honour.”


Page 164, Instance 1, Class: Text
now gave orders that the generals should remain in attendance in the hall,” and that the
colonels and captains should remain before the gates. But being now altogether in a
dangerous state, he Was conveyed from the park into the palace. When his officers entered 4
the room, he knew them indeed, but could no longer utter a word, being speechless. During.
the ensuing night and day and the next night and day he was ina very high fever.


Page 164, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXVIL
RUMOUR THAT ALEXANDER WAS POISONED.
Tam aware that many other particulars have been related by historians concerning
‘Alexander's death, and especially that poison was sent for him by Antipater, from the effects
‘of which he died”! It is also asserted that the poison was procured for Antipater by
Aristotle, who was now aftad of Alexander on aecount of Callisthenes.”” I is said to have
‘been conveyed by Cassander, the son of Antipater,”” some recording that he conveyed it in
the hoof of a mule, and that his younger brother Tolls gave it to the king.” For this man
‘was the royal cup-bearer, and he happened to have received some affront from Alexander a 4
short time before his death. Others have stated that Medius, being a lover of Tolls, took part
in the deed; for he it was who induced the king to hold the revel. They say that Alexander
‘was seized with an acute paroxysm of pain over the wine-cup, on feeling which he retired
from the drinking bout.” One writer has not even been ashamed to record that when
‘Alexander perceived be was unlikely to survive, he was going out to throw himself into the
river Euphrates, so that he might disappear from men's sight, and leave among the men of
after-times a more firmly-rooted opinion that he owed his birth to a god, and had departed to
the gods. But as he was going out he did not escape the notice of his wife Roxana, who
restrained him from carrying out his design. Whereupon he uttered lamentations, saying that
she forsooth envied him the complete glory of being thought the offspring of the god. These


Page 165, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXVIIL.
Character oF ALEXANDER,

‘Avexanper died in the hundred and fourteenth Olympiad, in the archonship of Hegesias at 423
Athens." According to the statement of Aristobulus, he lived thirty-two years, and had
reached the eighth month of his thirty-third year. He had reigned twelve years and these
eight months.” He was very handsome in person, and much devoted 10 exertion, very
active in mind, very heroic in courage, very tenacious of honout, exceedingly fond of
incurring danger, and strictly observant of his duty to the gods. In regard tothe pleasures of
the body, he had perfect self-control: and of those of the mind, praise was the only one of
‘hich he was insatiable. He was very elever in recognising what was necessary to be done,
‘even when it was still a matter unnoticed by others; and very suecessful in conjecturing
from the observation of facts what was likely to oceur. In marshalling, arming, and ruling an
army, he was exceedingly skilful; and very renowned for rousing the courage of his soldiers,
filling them with hopes of success, and dispelling their fear in the midst of danger by his
‘own freedom from fear. Therefore even what he had to do in secret he did with the greatest
boldness, He was also very clever in getting the start of his enemies, and snatching from
them their advantages by secretly forestalling them, before any one even feared what was
about to happen. He was likewise very steadfast in keeping the agreements and settlements
Which he made, as well as very secure from being entrapped by deceivers. Finally, he was
very sparing in the expenditure of money for the gratification of his own pleasures; but he
‘was exceedingly bountiful in spending it forthe benefit of his associates.

Be

CHAPTER XXIX,
APOLOGY FOR ALEXANDER’S ERRORS.

‘Tur Alexander should have committed errors in his conduct from quickness of temper or
from wrath,’” and that he should have been induced to comport himself like the Persian
monarchs 10 an immoderate degree, do not think remarkable if we fairly eonsider both his
youth” and his uninterrupted career of good fortune: likewise that kings have no associates
in pleasure who aim at their bes interests, but that they will always have associates urging
them to do wrong. However, 1am certain that Alexander was the only one of the ancient
kings who, from nobility of character, repented of the errors which he had committed. The
majority of men, even if they have become conscious that they have committed an erro,
make the mistake of thinking that they can conceal their sin by defending their error as if it
hhad been a just aetion. But it seems to me that the only cure for sin is for the sinner to
confess it, and to be visibly repentant in regard to it. Thus the suffering will not appear
altogether intolerable to those who have undergone unpleasant treatment, if the person who
inflicted it confesses that he has acted dishonourably: and this good hope for the future is
left to the man himself, that he will never again commit a similar sin, if he is seen to be
vexed at his former errors. I do not think that even his tracing his origin to a god was a great
error on Alexander's part, if it was not perhaps merely a device to induce his subjects to
show him reverence." Nor does he seem to me to have been a less renowned king than
Minos, Aeacus, or Rhadamanthus, to whom no insolence is attributed by the men of old,
‘because they traced their origin to Zeus. Nor does he seem at all inferior to Theseus ot lon,


Page 165, Instance 1, Class: Text
APOLOGY FOR ALEXANDER’S ERRORS.
‘Tur Alexander should have committed errors in his conduct from quickness of temper or
from wrath,’” and that he should have been induced to comport himself like the Persian
monarchs 10 an immoderate degree, do not think remarkable if we fairly eonsider both his
youth” and his uninterrupted career of good fortune: likewise that kings have no associates
in pleasure who aim at their bes interests, but that they will always have associates urging
them to do wrong. However, 1am certain that Alexander was the only one of the ancient
kings who, from nobility of character, repented of the errors which he had committed. The
majority of men, even if they have become conscious that they have committed an erro,
make the mistake of thinking that they can conceal their sin by defending their error as if it
hhad been a just aetion. But it seems to me that the only cure for sin is for the sinner to
confess it, and to be visibly repentant in regard to it. Thus the suffering will not appear
altogether intolerable to those who have undergone unpleasant treatment, if the person who
inflicted it confesses that he has acted dishonourably: and this good hope for the future is
left to the man himself, that he will never again commit a similar sin, if he is seen to be
vexed at his former errors. I do not think that even his tracing his origin to a god was a great
error on Alexander's part, if it was not perhaps merely a device to induce his subjects to
show him reverence." Nor does he seem to me to have been a less renowned king than
Minos, Aeacus, or Rhadamanthus, to whom no insolence is attributed by the men of old,
because they traced ther origin to Zeus. Nor does he seem at all inferior to Theseus oF Ion,
the former being the reputed son of Poseidon, and the latter of Apollo. His adoption of the


Page 165, Instance 2, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXVIIL.
Character oF ALEXANDER,

Auexanper died in the hundred and fourteenth Olympiad, in the archonship of Hegesias at
Athens." According to the statement of Aristobulus, he lived thirty-two years, and had
reached the eighth month of his thirty-third year. He had reigned twelve years and these
eight months.” He was very handsome in person, and much devoted 10 exertion, very
active in mind, very heroic in courage, very tenacious of honout, exceedingly fond of
incurring danger, and strictly observant of his duty to the gods. In regard tothe pleasures of
the body, he had perfect self-control: and of those of the mind, praise was the only one of
‘hich he was insatiable. He was very elever in recognising what was necessary to be done,
‘even when it was still a matter unnoticed by others; and very suecessful in conjecturing
from the observation of facts what was likely to oceur. In marshalling, arming, and ruling an
army, he was exceedingly skilful; and very renowned for rousing the courage of his soldiers,
filling them with hopes of success, and dispelling their fear in the midst of danger by his
‘own freedom from fear. Therefore even what he had to do in secret he did with the greatest
boldness, He was also very clever in getting the start of his enemies, and snatching from
them their advantages by secretly forestalling them, before any one even feared what was
about to happen. He was likewise very steadfast in keeping the agreements and settlements
Which he made, as well as very secure from being entrapped by deceivers. Finally, he was
very sparing in the expenditure of money for the gratification of his own pleasures; but he
‘was exceedingly bountiful in spending it forthe benefit of his associates.


Page 166, Instance 0, Class: Text
CHAPTER XXX.
EULOGY oF ALEXANDER.
Wuorver therefore reproaches Alexander as a bad man, lt him do so; but let him frst not
‘only bring before his mind all his actions deserving reproach, but also gather into one view 426
all his deeds of every kind, Then, indeed, let him reflect who he is himself, and what kind of
fortune he has experienced: and then consider who that man was whom he reproaches as
‘bad, and to what a height of human success he attained, becoming without any dispute king
‘of both continents,” and reaching every place by his fame; while he himself who
reproaches him is of smaller account, spending his labour on petty objets, which, however,
the does not succeed in effecting, petty as they are. For my own part, | think there was at that
time no race of men, no city, nor even a single individual to whom Alexander's name and
fame had not penetrated. For this reason it seems to me that a hero totally unlike any other
‘human being could not have been bom without the ageney of the deity. And this is said to
have been revealed after Alexander's death by the oracular responses, by the visions which
presented themselves to various people, and by the dreams which were seen by different
individuals. It is also shown by the honour paid to him by men up to the present time, and
by the recollection which is stil held of him as more than human. Even a the present time,
after so long an interval, other oracular responses in his honour have been received by the
nation of the Macedonians. In relating the history of Alexander's achievements, there are
some things which I have been compelled to censure; but I am not ashamed to admire
‘Alexander himself. Those actions I have branded as bad, both from a regard to my own
veracity, and at the same time for the benefit of mankind" For this reason I think that 127
undertook the task of writing this history not without the divine inspiration.
‘Tur END oF THE History oF ALEXANDER’s DEEDS.


Page 166, Instance 1, Class: Text
Persian mode of dressing also seems to me to have been a political device in regard to the
foreigners, thatthe king might not appear altogether an alien to them; and in regard to the
Macedonians, to show them that he had a refuge from their rashness of temper and
insolence. For this eason I think, he mixed the Persian royal guards, who carried golden
apples at the end of their spears"" among the ranks of the Macedonians, and the Persian
peers with the Macedonian body-guards. Aristobulus also asserts that Alexander used to
have long drinking parties, not for the purpose of enjoying the wine, as he was not a great
‘wine-drinker, but in order to exhibit his sociality and friendly feeling to his Companions."


Page 166, Instance 2, Class: Text
FOOTNOTES:
“LCE Arian (Cees, 4)
[3Cf Joep (7 pt, 70)
‘4CE Lain (lender, 2)
6 See dna, 104i 144i 25,9 12,7
ana, v.25
Life of Alexander cap. 16,
9 Se dnt 5,168; 28 6 Ii, 19, 21,2832, 40


Page 167, Instance 0, Class: Text
11 Pokcennows, surnamed Soter, the Preserver, but sore commonly known as the Sen of
Lagus, a Macedonian of low bint. Ptolemy's mother, Arsnoe, had been a concubine of
Philip of Macedon, for which reason it was generally believed that Polemy was the
‘offspring of that king. Ptolemy was one of the earliest fends of Alexander before his
accession tothe throne, and accompanied him throughout his campaign, being one of his
‘most skilful generals and most intimate trends. On the division of the empire ater
Alexander's death, Ptolemy obtained the kingdom of Egypt, which he transmitted to his
descendants. After a distinguished reign of thity-cight years, he abdicated the throne 10 his
youngest soa, Ptolemy Philadelphus. He survived this event two years, and died mc. 283,
He was a liberal patron of literature and the arts, and wrote a history of the wars of
Alexander, which is ane of the chief authorities on which Arvian composed his narrative
For his bencticence, ce Aelian (Javia Historia, xl. 12). Not only Arian, but Plutarch and
Strabo, derived much information ffom Proms work, which is highly commended by
Athens.

12 Aristobulus of Potidaca, a town in Macedonia, which was afterwards called
CCassandtea, served under Alexander, and wrote a history of his wars, which, like that of
Ptolemy, was sometimes more panegyrical than the facts warranted. Neither of these
histories has survived, but they served Aerian asthe groundwork forthe composition of his
‘own narrative. Lucian in his treatise, Quomado historia st conscrbenda, ch. 12, accuses
Aristobulus of inventing marvellous tales of Alexander's valour forthe sake of fatry
Plutarch based his Life of Alexander chiefly on the work of this write. We leam from
Lucian (Macrobioi, 22), that Arstobulus wrote his history atthe advanced age of eighty-
four He was employed by Alexander to superntend the restoration of Cyrus's toma (rian,
vi 30),

13 vasoqo inthe sense of reading through = dveyywdoxew, is found only inthe
later writers, Arran, Plutarch, Dion, Cllimachus, et.

14 nc. 336, He was murdered by a young noble named Pausanias, who stabbed him at
the festival which he was holding to celebrate the mariage of his daughter with Alexander,
king of Epirus. It was suspected that both Olympias and her son Alexander were implicated
in the plot. At the time of his assassination Philip was just about to start on an expedition
against Persia, which his son afterwards so successfully carried out. Soe Plutarch (Ale,
10; Diod. xix. 93, 94; Arstatle Palit v. 8, 10).

115 It was the custom of the Athenians to name the years from the president of the
college of nine archons at Athens, who were elected annually, The Attic waters adopted this
method of determining dates. See Smith's Dictionary of Antiguits.

1g Alexander the Great was the son of Philp IL and Olympias, and was boen at Pella
1c. 386. In his youth he was placed under the ition of Aristotle, who acquired very great
influence over his mind and characte, and retained it until his pupil was spoiled by his
unparalleled successes. See Aelian Varia Historia, xi $4). Such was his ability, that atthe
age of 16 he was entusted with the government of Macedonia by his father, when he
marched aguinst Byzantium. At the age of 18 by his skill and courage be greatly assisted
Philip in gnining the bate of Chaeronea. When Philip was murdered, Alexander ascended
the throne, and afer putting down rebellion at home, he advanced into Greece to secure the
power which his father had acquired. See Diod, xvi. 85; rvian, vi. 9.

12 See Justin, xi. 2.

18 “Arsian speaks as if this request had been addressed only t0 the Grecks within
Peloponnesus; moreover he mentions no assembly at Corinth, which is noticed, though with
some confusion, by Diodorus, Justin, and Plutarch. Cities out of Peloponnesis, as well as
Within it, must have been included; unless we suppose that the resolution of the
Amphictyoni assembly, which had been previously passed, was held t9 comprehend all the
extra-Peloponnesin cites, which seems not probable." Grote


Page 168, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘here referred to was Philip.

20 See Justin, xi 3; Aeschines, Contra Ctesiphontem,p. S64

21 The Tibullians were a tribe inhabiting the part of Serva bordering on Bulgaria. The
lyvian inhabited the eastern coast of the Adriatic Sea, the districts now called North
Albania, Bosnia Dalmatia and Croatia,

22. We ear fom Thucydides, i, 96, that these people were called Di

28 The Nessus, or Nests, now called Mesto by the Greeks, and Karas by the Turks,

24 Now known asthe Balkan, The defles mentioned by Artin ate probably what was
afterwards called Porta Teajani. CE Veril (Georg. i 488); Horace (Carm., i. 12,6).

25 xemoinvto-—Arrian offen forms the pluperiect tense without the augment
Suaaxeddcout:—The Atic future of this ver is Saoxtba. CE. Asstoph. (nds, 1053)

26 The Agrianes were a tribe of Eastern Paconia who lived near the Triballians. They
served inthe Macedonian army chiefly as cavalry and light infantry

21 Peshaps Neapolis and Eion, which were the harbours of Philippi and Amphipoli.

28 This officer was commander of the royal body-guard. His father was Parmenio, the
most experienced of Alexander's generals,

20 Thucydides says (BK. ii, 96): "On the side of the Teibalians, who were also
independent, the border tribes were the Trerans and the Tilatzans, who live tothe north of|
‘mount Scombrus, and stretch towards the west as far as the river Oscius. This river flows
fom the same mountains as the Nestus and the Hcbrus, an uninhabited and extensive range,
joining on to Rhodope.” The Oscius is now called Isker. tis uncertain which rier is the
[Lygimus; bu perhaps twas another name forthe Oscius

30/Also named Danube. Cr. Hesiod (Pheog., 339); Ovid (Met, i 249); Pindar (Ol.
ii, 24.

‘AL Its uncenain in what par of the Danube this island was, It cannot be the Peuce of
Swrabo (vi, 3). CE Apollonius Rhodius (iv. 309); Martilis (i. 84), Valerius Flaceus (vi
217)

32 These two generals are mentioned (ii. 11 infta) as being present at the battle of
Abela Sopolis is also mentioned (v.13 and 18 inf).

34 Battiaea was a district of Macedonia on the right bank ofthe Axis.

‘3M The classical writers have three names to denote this race:—Cels, Galatians, and
Gauls. These names were ergially given to all the people of the North and West of Europe:
and it was not till Caesar's time thatthe Romans made any distinction between Celts and
‘Germans. The name of Celts was then confined tothe people north ofthe Pyrenees and west
‘of the Rhine. Cf Ammianus (wv. 9}; Herodotus (v.49) Livy (¥.33, 34); Polvbius (i. 39)

38 Arran is ere speaking, not of Alexander's time, but of his own, the second century
‘of the Christian ea. The Quad were a race dwelling inthe south-east of Germany. They are
senerally mentioned with the Marcomanni, and were formidable enemies of the Romans,
especially inthe reign of Marcus Aurelius, when Arran wrote. This nation disappears from
history about the end ofthe fourth century.

36 The Marcomann, like the Quadi, were a powerful branch of the Suevie race,
‘originally dwelling in the south-west of Germany; but in the reign of Tiberius they
dispossessed the Boi ofthe country now called Bohemia. In conjunction with the Quad,
they were very formidable tothe Romans until Commodis purchased peace from them, The
name denotes “border men." CE Ces (Bel. Gal, i. $1)

32 The lazygians were a tbe of Sarmatians, who migrated from the coast ofthe Black
Sea, between the Dnieper and the Sea of Azo\; inthe reign of Claudius, and setled in
Dacia, near the Quad, with whom they formed a close alliance. They were conquered by


Page 169, Instance 0, Class: Text
ee te a we ee a
Don, and wer allied to the Scythians. Subsequent writers understood by Sarmatia th east
par of Poland, the south of Rusia and the country southward as fr asthe Danube.

39 These people were called Dacians by the Romans. They were Thracian, and are said
by Herodotus and Thucydides to have lived south of the Danube, nar its mouths. They
subsequently migrated north ofthis iver, and were driven futher west by the Sarmatians,
They were very formidable to the Romans in the reigns of Augustus and Domitian. Dacia
was conquered by Trajan; but ultimately abandoned by Aurelian who made the Danube the
boundary of the Roman Empire. About the Getae holding the doctrine of immortality, soe
Herodotus (v.98) CE Horace (Carm, i 6,13; Sati 6, 83)

40 The Scythians are said by Herodotus to have inhabited the south of Russia. His
supposition that they came from Asia is doubtless correct. He gives ample information about
this race in the fourth book of his History

41 Herodotus (iv, 47) says the Danube had five mouths; but Strabo (vi, 3) says there
were seven. At the present time it has only three mouths. The irecks called the Black Sea
évtos sigawes, she sea kind to strangers. CE. Ovid (Irista, iv. 4, $3)-—"Frigida me
‘cohibent Eun itora Poni, Dictus ab aniquis Axenus ile uit”

42 The sarissa, or more correctly sarisa, was a spear peculiar to the Macedonians. It
was from fourteen to sixteen fet long. See Grote's Greece, vol. xi ch. 92, Appendix.

£3 Son of Pamenio and brother of Philtas.

44 The parasang was a Persian measure, containing dirty stades, nearly three and three-
‘quarter English miles. is sil used by the Persians, who call it ferseng. See Heradoms (vi.
42) and Grote's History of Greece, vo. vit p. 316

45 Son of Neoptolemus. After Alexander's death Meleager resisted the claim of
Perdiccas to the regency, and was associated with him in the office. He was, however, soon
afterwards put to death bythe order of his rival

46 Son of Machats, was an eminent general, slain in Indi, See v.27 ina

41 The Macedonian kings believed they were sprung fom Hercules. Soe Curtis, v7.

48 The Adriatic Sea

49 CE. Aclian (Varia Historia, xi. 23); Sabo, vi p. 293; Aristotle (Nicom. Ethis, i
7; Eudem. Eth, ii, 1)-—olov oi Kedrot xpds ci eigara eda dxavxBot haves:
Amonianas, x. 12

50 The Paconians were a powerful Thracian people, who in early times spread over a
reat part of Thrace and Macedonia, In historical times they inhabited the country on the
hortiem border of Macedonia, They were long troublesome to. Macedonia, but were
subdued by Philip the father of Alexander, who, however, allowed them to retain their own
chiefS. The Agrianians were the chief tribe of Paconians, from whom Philip and Alexander
formed a valuable body of light-armed troops.

LL Bardylis was a chieftain of Ilyria who carried on frequent wars with the
Macedonians, but was at last defeated and slain by Philip, B.C. 359. Clitus had been
subdued by Philip n 349 nc

52 This Glaucias subsequently afforded asylum to the celebrated Pyrthus, King of
Epirus, when an infant of two years of age. He took the child into his own family and
brought him up with his own children. He not only refused to surrender Pyrhus to
‘Cassander, but marched into Epirus and placed the boy, when twelve years of age, upon the
throne, leaving him under the care of guaedians, mc. 307.

53 The Toulantians were a people of Illyria in the neighbourhood of Epidamnus, now
called Durazzo.

“34 These were an Ilyrian people in the Dalmatian mountains


Page 170, Instance 0, Class: Text
557 D. She was given in marriage to her cousin Amyntas, who had a preferable claim to the
“Macedonian throne asthe son of Philip's elder brother, Perdiccas. This Amytas was put to
<death by Alexander soon after his accession. Cyna was put to death by Aleetas atthe order
‘of Perdiccas the regent afer Alexander's death, See Diodorus, xix. 52.

56 The capital of Macedonia. On its site stands the modern village of Neokbori, of
Yenikiuy. Philip an Alexander were born here.

STA tributary ofthe Axis, called Agrianus by Herodotus tis now called Tscherna

58 This city was situated south of lake Lychnitis, on the westside of the chain of
Scardus and Pindus. The locality is described in Livy, xxxi. 39,40,

52.Now called Deval

{60 The use of enzo with participle instead ofthe Attic wainep is frequent in Arian
and the later writers

61 The Hypaspists—shield-bearers, or guards—were a body of infantry organized by
Philip, originally few in sumber, and employed as personal defenders of the king, but
afterwards enlarged into several distinct brigades. They were hoplites intended for close
‘combat, but more lightly ammed and more fit for rapid evolutions than the phalanx. Like the
Greeks, they fought with the one-handed pike and shield. They occupied an intermediate
Position between the heavy infantry ofthe phalanx, and the pelasts and other light troops
See Grote's Greece, vol ich. 92.

62 The heavy cavalry wholly or chiefly composed of Macedonians by inh, was known
by the honourable name of éraipot, Companions, or Brothers in Arms. It was divided, as it
Scoms, into 15 Tua, which were named aller the Sates or districts from which they came.
Ther Strength varied from 150 to 280 men. A separate one, the 16th I formed the so-called
_agema, or royal horse-guand, tthe head of which Alexander himself generally charged. See
Avrian, i ML, 13,18

{63 In addition to his other military improvements, Philip had organized an effective
siege-rain with projectile and battering engines superior to anything of the kind existing
before. This anillery was at once made use of by Alexander in this eampaign against the
yrians

{64 Periceas, son of Orontes, a Macedonian, was one of Alexander's most distinguished
generals. The king is sid on his death-hed to have taken the royal signet fom his finger and
to have given it to Perdiceas. After Alexander's death he was appointed regent; but an
alliance was formed against him by Antipater, Craterus, and Ptolemy. He marched into
Egypt against Ptolemy. Being defeated in his attempts to force the passage ofthe Nile, his
‘own troops mutinied against him and slew him (B.C. 321). See Diodorus, xvi. 36. For his
personal valour see Aelian Varia Historia, xi 39),

65 Coenus, son of Polemocrates, was a son-in-law of Parmenio, and one of Alexander's
best generals. He violently accused his brother-in-law Philotas of treason, and personally
Superintended the torturing ofthat famous officer previous to his execution (Clurtus, vi. 36,
42), He was put forward by the army to dissuade Alexander from advancing beyond the
Hyphusis (4rrian, x. 27). Soon after this he died and was buried with all possible
‘magnificence near that river, m¢.327 (drvian, vi 2).

166 The Cadmea was the Acropolis of Thebes, an oval eminence of no great height,
named after Cadmus, the leader of a Phoenician colony, who is said to have founded it
Since the batle of Chacronca, this citadel had been held by a Macedonian garrison

(62 Amyntas was a Macedonian officer, and Timolais a leading Theban of the
Macedonian faction,

(68 CE Aetian (Varia Historia, xii. 7)

{69 These were two provinces in the west of Macedonia


Page 170, Instance 1, Class: Text
{63 In addition to his other military improvements, Philip had organized an effective
siege-rain with projectile and battering engines superior to anything of the kind existing
before. This anillery was at once made use of by Alexander in this eampaign against the
yrians

{64 Periceas, son of Orontes, a Macedonian, was one of Alexander's most distinguished
generals. The king is sid on his death-hed to have taken the royal signet fom his finger and
to have given it to Perdiceas. After Alexander's death he was appointed regent; but an
alliance was formed against him by Antipater, Craterus, and Ptolemy. He marched into
Egypt against Ptolemy. Being defeated in his attempts to force the passage ofthe Nile, his
‘own troops mutinied against him and slew him (B.C. 321). See Diodorus, xvi. 36. For his
personal valour see Aelian Varia Historia, xi 39),

65 Coenus, son of Polemocrates, was a son-in-law of Parmenio, and one of Alexander's
best generals. He violently accused his brother-in-law Philotas of treason, and personally
Superintended the torturing ofthat famous officer previous to his execution (Clurtus, vi. 36,
42), He was put forward by the army to dissuade Alexander from advancing beyond the
Hyphusis (4rrian, x. 27). Soon after this he died and was buried with all possible
‘magnificence near that river, m¢.327 (drvian, vi 2).

166 The Cadmea was the Acropolis of Thebes, an oval eminence of no great height,
named after Cadmus, the leader of a Phoenician colony, who is said to have founded it
Since the batle of Chacronca, this citadel had been held by a Macedonian garrison

(62 Amyntas was a Macedonian officer, and Timolais a leading Theban of the
Macedonian faction,

(68 CE Aetian (Varia Historia, xii. 7)

(69 These were two provinces inthe west of Macedonia

20 Two divisions of Epirus.


Page 171, Instance 0, Class: Text
T2Atown in Bocotia, on the lake Copais, distant 50 stades north-west of Thebes.

73 It seems from Plutarch, that Alexander was really wounded inthe head by a stone, in
abate with the Illyrian.

14 This Alexander was aso called Lyncestes, from being a native of Lyncestis, a district
‘of Macedonia. He was an accomplice in Philip's murder, but was pardoned by his uecessor.
He accompanied Alexander the Great into Asta, but was put to death in .c. 330, for having
‘carried ona treasonahle correspondence with Darius. See Arvin, i 28.

15 The fiend and chariotcer of Hercules.

16 He sent to demand the surender of the antiMacedonian leaders, Phoenix and
Prothytes, but offering any other Thebans who came ou to im the terms agreed upon in the
preceding year. See Plutarch (Life of Alexander, 11); and Diodorus, xvi 9

22 The Bocotarchs were the chief magistrates of the Bocotian confederacy, chosen
annually by the different States. The number varied from ten to twelve. At the time of the
hate of Deum, inthe Peloponnesian war, they were eleven in numer, to of them being
Thebans. See Grote, History of Greece, vol. ip. 296

128 Arian says that the attack of the Macedonians upon Thebes was made by Pendiceas,
without orders from Alexander; and that the capture was effected in a short time and with no
labour onthe part of the captors (ch. ix.) But Diodorus says that Alexander ordered and
arranged the assault, thatthe Thebans made a brave and desperate resistance fora long time,
and that not only the Bocotian allies, but the Macedonians themselves commited great
slaughter of the Besieged (Diod. xvi I-14). It is probable that Prolemy, who was Arian’s
futhority, wished to exonerate Alexander from the guilt of destroying Thebes,

19 Amyntas was one of Alexanders leading oficers. He and his brothers were accused
‘of being accomplices in the plot of Philos, but were acquitted. He was however soon
afterward killed in a skirmish (rian, i. 27),

‘30"The mythical founder of the walls of Thebes. See Pausanias (ix. 17)

‘31 The Thebans had incurred the enmity of the other Bosotins by treating them as
subjects instead of allies. They had destroyed the restored Plataca, and had boca the chic
‘enemies ofthe Phocians inthe Sacred War, which ended inthe subjugation ofthat people by
Philip. Sce Smith's History of Greece, pp. 467,473, 506,

82 More than S00 Macedonians were killed, while 6.000 Thebans were slain, and
30,000 sold into slavery. See Aclian (Varia Historia, xii. 7; Diodorus (xvi. 14); Pausamias
(vii. 30); Plutarch (Life of Alecander, 11). The sale ofthe captives realized 440 talents, or
shout £107,000; and Justin (xi. 4) says that lange sums were offered from feelings of
hostility towards Thebes onthe part of the bidders

BE me. 415-413, See Grote's Greece, vol. vi

84 me. 405. See Thucydides (i. 13); Xenophon (Hellenic, i 2)

[88 By Conon’s victory at Cnidus, ne. 394,

3G At Leuctra they lost 400 Spartans and 1,000 other Lacedaemonians. See Xen,
(Hellen, vi.

‘87 "The Achacans, Eleans, Athenians, and some of the Arcadians, were allie of Sparta at
this erisis, mc. 369. See Xen. (Hellen. vi. 8); Diodorus (wv. 88)

BS mc. 426, See Thue ii. $2, ee

89 me. 416 and 421. See Thue, v.32, 84, ee

90 These persons must have forgotten that Alexander's predecessor and namesake had
served inthe army of Xerxes along with the Thebans. See Herodoms vii 173.


Page 172, Instance 0, Class: Text
93 Plutarch (Alexander, 13) tells us that Alexander was afterwards sorry for his eructy
to the Thebans. He believed that he had incurred the wrath of Dionysus, the tatelary deity of|
Thebes, wi incited him to kills friend Clitus, and induced his soldiers to refuse to follow
him int the interior of India,

(24 Orchomenus was destroyed by the Thebans nc. 364, See Diod., x. 79; Demosthenes
(Contra Leptinem, . 489). It as restored by Philip, according to Pausanias, i. 27

295 The Great Mysteries of Demeter were celebrated at Eleusi, from the 15th othe 23rd
‘of the month Bocdromion, out September.

96 All these nine men were orators except Chares, Charidemus, and Ephialtes, who were
nilitary men. Plutarch (Life of Demosthenes, 23) does not mention Chares, Diotimus, and
Hyperides, bu puts the names of Callsthenes and Darn inthe list.

‘97 Soe Aeschines (Adversus Clesiphontem, pp. 469, S47, $S1, 603, 633}; Plutarch
(Demosthenes, 22; Phocion, 16); Diodorus, xvi.

98 At the head ofthis embassy was Phocion.

9 He was put to death by Darius shortly before the battle of Issus, for advising him not
to rely on his Asiatic troops inthe contest with Alexander, but to subsidize an army of
Grecian mercenaries. See Curtis, i 5; Diodorus, xvi 30

100 Archelais was king of Macedonia from nc. 413-399. He improved the internal
arrangements of is kingdom, and patronsed art and literature. He induced the tragic poets,
Euripides and Agathon, as well as the epic poet Chocrilus, to visit him; and treated
Euripides especially with favour. He also invited Socrates, who declined the invitation

LDL Acgac, or Edessa, was the earlier capital of Macedonia, and the burial place ofits
kings. Pili was murdered here, nc. 336,

“102 A narrow strip of land in Macedonia, between the mouths of the Haliacmon and
Penus the reputed home of Orpheus andthe Mises.

108 CE Apollonius Rhodis, iv. 1284; Livy i

4104 This man was the most noted soothsayer ofhis time. Telmissus was a city of Caria,
<elebrated for the skill ofits inhabitants in divination. Cf Arian (nab. i 25, i 18, i. 2,
ii 7, 15, iv 4, v.15); Herodons, i. 78; and Cicero (De Divinatione,i 41),

105 Diodorus (xvi. 17) says that there were 30,000 infantry and 4,500 cavalry. He gives
‘he numbers in the diferent brigades as well asthe names ofthe commanders. Plutarch (Life
fof Alexander, 15) says thatthe lowest numbers recorded were 30,000 infantry and 5,000
‘cavalry and the highest, 34,000 infantry and 4,000 cavalry

106 This lake is near the mouth ofthe Strymon, It is called Prasias by eradotus (v.16)
Its present name is Tak-hyno

107 This mountain is now called Pimar. Xerxes took the same route when marching
imo Greece. See Herodotus, v.16, vii. 112; Aeschylus (Persae, 494); Euripides (Rhesus,
922, 972)

108 Now called Maritza. See Theoeritus, vi. 110.

1109 Ck Homer (ad, ji. 701); Ovid (Epistolae Heroidum, nit. 93); Herodotus (ix. 16).

410 The Athenians supplied twenty ships of war. See Diodorus, xvi. 22

.LLLA landing-place inthe north-west of Troas, near Cape Sigacum

U2 CE. Diodorus, vii 17; Justin xi. 5.

113 The celebrated general, mentioned already in chap. 10.

_LL4 Son of Amyntas, a Macedonian of Pella. He was the most intimate ftiend of
eee te ene ee ene teen ne was tne most intimate


Page 173, Instance 0, Class: Text
<0 customary in his own day, of anointing kimecif with ofl and rumning wp to the tomb
naked. Cf Aelian (Vavia Historia, x. 4) Cicero Pro Archi, ch, 10)

416 By Pindar and Bacchylides.

112 See Xenophon’s Anabasis, Book i.

118 A town in the Macedonia district of Mygdonis, south of Lake Bolbe. It is now called
Polina,

119 We find trom Diodorus (xvi. 7), thatthe Persian king had subsidized this great
general and 5,000 Greek mercenaries to protect his seaboard from the Macedonians. Before
the aval of Alexander, he had suceeeded in checking the advance of Parmenio and Callas,
If Memnon had lived and his advice ben adopted by Darius, the fate of Persia might have
heen very diferent. Cr Plutarch (Life of Ale. 18)

120 Diodorus (xvi. 18) says that Memon, while advising the Persian generals to lay
waste the county, and to prevent the Macedonians from advancing through scarcity of
provisions, also urged them to cary a large force into Greece and Macedonia, and thus
transfer the war into Europe

4121 The Granius rises in Mount Ida, and falls into the Proponts near Cyzicus. Ovid
(eta, xi. 163) cals it Granicusbicornis

122 This was brigade of about 1,000 men, See Livy, xxv 42.

123 bxogbicoue. This future is used by the later writers for the Attic bxopOyjaowat. It
is found however in Xenophon.

1124 Crates was one of Alexander's best generals. On the deat ofthe king he received
the government of Macedonia and Greece in conjunction with Antipater, whose daughter he
married. He fll in battle against Eumenes (B.C. 321).

1125 Calas was appointed viceroy of Phrygia, He consequently took no further pat in
Alexander's campaigns aftr this,

126 Alexander had three generals named Philip, two of whom are mentioned here as
sons of Amyntas and Menelats. The third was son of Machatas, and was left in India as
viceroy.

127 Som of Tyrimmas, was commander of the Odrysian cavalry. See ii, 12 infra

28 Diodorus (xvii, 19) says that the Persian cavalry sumbered 10,000, and their
infantry 100,000. Bot these numbers are inaccurate. We know fom Arran (chaps. 12 and
1) thatthe Persian infantry was inferior in number to that of Alexander.

4129 This is an Homeric name for Mars the war-god. In Homer Ares isthe Trojan and
Enyalus the Grecian wargod. Hence they are mentioned as different in Aristophanes (Pax,
4451), See Paley's note on Homer (si. 166). AS to the practice of shouting the warcry 10
“Mars before battle, see Xenophon (nab. i. 8,18; v2, 1). The Scholiast on Thucydides (i
50) siys that the Grecks used to sing two pasans, one to Mars before battle, another to
Apollo ater it

130g dary = Gs; Swvarév. CE Aevian, v.12, 6; Xenophon (Ana, i 8, 1; Res.
Laced 13).

131 Qovaorier magn, This is a common expression with Arian, copied from
Herodons (i. 74, et passin,

152 Plutarch (Alex, 16); Diadorus (xvi 20).

1133 Diodorus (xvi. 21) says that more than 10,000 ofthe Persian infantry were killed,
and 2,000 cavalry; and that more than 20,000 were made prisoners.

13 Her name was Stata

“138 An important city in Macedonia on the Thermaic gulf, named after a temple of


Page 174, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘works remain, inasmuch as they were all executed in bronze. Alexander published an edict
that no one should paint his portrait but Apelles, and that no one should make a statue of
him but Lysippus. When Metellus conquered Macedonia, he removed this group of bronze
statues to Rome, to decorate his own portico. See Pliny (Nat. Hist, xxxi. 19), Veleius
Paerculus (11),

1137 As most of the infantry on the Persian side were Grecian mercenaries, who,
according 19 Pluarch, fought with desperate valour, and, according to Arian himself, all
the infant were killed except 2,000, the number of Alexander's slain must have been
larger than Artin here states.

“13S At Corinth, me. 336,

19 For the fact that the Acropolis of Athens was often called simply polis, see
‘Thucydides, ii 15; Xenophon (Anab. vil. 1, 27); Amiphon (146, 2) Aristophanes (Eguits,
1093; ysisiraa, 758).

LAD city atthe foot of Mount Id,

LALA city of Bithynia,on the Propontis,

122 About eight mils,

143 This river flows through Phrygia and Lydia, and fall into the gulf of Smyrna. Is
present name is Kodus-Chai. See Vergil (Georg. it 137}; ius, . 189; Claudian (Rapmus
Proserpinae, i. 67)

144 Nearly two-and-o-al mils

145 Fora description ofthis fortress, see Herodotus i 84

4146 Memon had succeeded his brother Mentor as governor forthe Persian king ofthe
temitory near the Hellespont. See Diodorus, xii. 7

142 This man took refuge with Darius, and distinguished himself atthe bate of Issus.
See Plutarch (lex, 20); Curis, it. 28. He met with his death soon after in Egypt. See
Arran, i. ad 13; Diod, xvi 48,

148 The temple of Artemis at Ephesus had been burt down by Herostratus inthe night
‘on which Alexander was born (Oct. 13-14, .¢. 356), and at this time was being restored by
the joint effons of the Ionian cities. See Sabo, xi. I. Heropythus and Syrphax are not
mettioned by any other writers

1149 This was the Carian Magnesia, situated on the Lethacus, 2 tibutary of the
“Macander.Tralles was on the Eudon, another tributary ofthe Macander. See Juvenl, ii. 70.

4150 Lysimachus was of mean origin, his father having been a ser in Sicily. He was one
‘of Alexander's confidential body-guards, and on the death ofthe great king obtained Thrace
{as his portion ofthe dismembered empire. In conjunction with Seleucus he won the battle of|
Ipsus, by which he obiained a great part of Asia Minor. He ultimately acquired ll the
European dominions of Alexander in addition to Asia Minor; but in his eightcth year he
was defeated and slain by Seleucus atthe batle of Corus, .c. 281. Sintenis was the fist to
Substitute Zysimachus for Antimachus, the eading of the MSS. Cf. v.28 ina

151 Eleven in number. See Herodoms, i 149-151

152 Thirteen in number, of which Miletus and Ephesus were the cie in importance

153 For the celebrated interview of Alexander with Apelles at Ephesus, see Actian
(aria Historia, i 3)

154 CE Herodoms, vi. 7. Here the Persians destroyed the lonie fleet, ne. 497,

4158 Famous for the victory won near it by Leotychides and Xanthippus over the
Persians, nc. 479,

156 CL. Ver Aeneid, vi. 3). vernon pelago proras. See Conington’s ote


Page 175, Instance 0, Class: Text
158 dpoyaproivrw. This word is rare in prose. See Homer (Iliad, viii. 191); Apollonius
Rhodius, i201

1159 Miletus lay nearly ten miles south ofthe mouth ofthe Macander

116A similar suatagem was used by Lysander at Acgospotami, 2. 40S. See Xenophon
(Hellenes i,

161 lasus was a city in Caria on the lassian Gulf founded by the Angives and further
«colonized bythe Milesians

162 Caria formed the south-west angle of Asia Minor. The Grecks asserted thatthe
CCarians were emigrants from Crete. We leam from Thucydides and Herodotus that they
centered the service of foreign rulers. They formed the body-guard of queen Athaiah, who
had usurped the tone and stood in need of frcign mercenaries. The word translated in our
Bible in 2 Kings xi 4,19 a captains, ought to be tendered Carians. See Fuest's Hebrew
Lexicon, sub voce "3

1163 Now called Budrum. It was the birthplace of the historians Herodotus and
Dionysius

1.64 Litle more than hal a ile

165 Now called Melsso,a ity of Cara, about ten miles from the Gulf of asus.

166 A colony of Troczen, on the western extremity ofthe same peninsula on which
stood Halicarnassus

167 Diodorus (xvi, 25) says that this incident occurred in the night, which is scarcely
probable. Compare the conduct ofthe two centurions Plfio and Varenus in the county of|
the Nervi. Casar (Gallic War, v.44)

{168 Compare the sieges of Avaricum, Gergovia, and Alesia by Cassar (Galle War, lib
vi); and that of Saguntum by Hannibal. See Livy, xi. 7-15.

169 This use of dup with the Dative, is poetical. The Attic writers use nepi with the
Accusative. CEH 3,85, 30,1

170 There were at least four generals in Alexander's army of ths name. The one here
mentioned was probably not the famous son of Lagus.

41D Diodorus (xvi. 25-27) gives a very different account of the last struggle of the
besieged in Halicarnassus. When the leaders saw that they must eventually succumb, they
made a last desperate effort to destroy Alexander's military engines. Ephialtes, the eminent
[Athenian exile, headed the sally, which was effected by troops simultancousy issuing from
all the gates at daybreak. The advanced guand of the Macedonians, consisting of young
troops, Were put to rout; but the veterans of Philip restored the battle under a man named
‘Atharias. Ephialtes was slain, and his men driven back into the city.

172 Hecatomnus, king of Cara, eft three sons, Mausolus, Hdticus, and Pixodarus; and
two daughters, Artemisia and Ada. Artemisia maried Mausolus, and Ada married Hidricus
Al these children succeeded their father in the sovereignty, Pixodarus being the last
surviving son.

4123 Amyntas, king of Macedonia, grandfather of Alexander the Grea, adopted the
celebrated Athenian general Ipicrates, in gratimude to him as the preserver of Macedonia,
See Aeschines (De Falsa Legarione,pp-249, 250)

1124 See Arian, i. 20 ines

1178 The Marmarians alone defended their city with desperate valour. Thy finally st
fire to it, and escaped throug the Macedonian camp to the mountains. See Diodorus (xvi
28)-As to Xamthus the iver, see Homer (tad, i877; vi. 172); Horace (Carm. i. 6,26).

176 Lycia was originally called Milyas; but the name was afterwards applic to the high


Page 176, Instance 0, Class: Text
177 Phases was a seaport of Lycia onthe Gulf of Pamphylia. Its now called Tekrova

{178 He also crowned with garlands the statue of Theodectes the rhetorcia, which the
people of Phasclis, his native city, had erected to his memory. This man was a iend and
Pupil of Aristotle, the tutor of Alexander. See Pltarch (Life of Alex, 17); Aristotle (Nicom,
Eshies, vi. 7

129 Philip was murdered by Pausanias. Three only of his reputed accomplices are
known by name, and they were Alexander, Heromenes, and Arthabacus, sons of AEsopus
The two ltr Were put to death; but the first named was not only spared, but advanced t0
high military command for being the frst to salute Alexander asking. Compare Curtis (vi
1; Justin (x. 2). Alexander was accused by some of forgiving his father’s murderers
Probably the reference was to his kind treatment of Olympias and this Alexander. See
Gurus, i 48.

4180 That ofthe Hellespontne Phrygia. See chap. xvi. supra

{USL See chap. xvi. supa

182 Nearly £250,000

4183 See chap. xi supra

4184 Compare Plutarch (Alex, 17) Just asthe historians of Alexander affirmed thatthe
Sea near Pamphylia providentally made way for him, so the people of Thapsacus, when
they saw the anny’ of Cyrus eros the Euphrates on foot, said thatthe river made way for
him to come and take the scepte (Xen, Anh. i 4) So also the inhabitants prostrated
themselves bere Lucullas when the sme river subsided and allowed his army to cross
(Pluarch, Luculus, chap. xxiv.) There was the same omen in the reign of Tiberius, when
Vitellius, with a Roman army, crossed the Euphrates to restore Tirdates to the throne of
Parthia Tacitus, Anas, vi 37) CE. Strabo, xv. 3.

{185 Aspendus was onthe Eurymedon,

4186 About £12,000

4187 Side was on the cous of Pamphylia, litle west ofthe iver Mela.

18 Syllium was about five miles from the coast, between Aspendus and Side.

4180 This river is celebrated for the double victory of Cimon the Athenian over the
Persians, in 2c. 466, See Smith's Greece p. 252; Grote, vl. .p. 163

100 This lake is mentioned by Herodons (vi. 30), as being near the city of Anava. His
now called Burd

101 Here Cyrus the Younger reviewed his Grecian forces and found thems to be 11,000
hoplites and 2,000 peltass. Here that prince had a palace and par, in which ose the Fiver
“Macander, close to the source ofthe Marsyas. See Xenophon (4nab. i. 2); compare Curtius
(ii).

192 Cutis (i 1) says they made a trace with Alexander for sixty days.

198 Antigonus, called the One-eyed, was father of Demetrius Poliorestes. On the
division of Alexander's empire he received Phrygia, Lycia, and Pamphylia. He eventually
acquired the whole of Asia Minor, but was defeated and slain at the bate of Ipsus by the
allied forces of Cassander, Lysimachus, Ptolemy, and Seleucus (B.C. 301). When he was
slain he was in is eighty-frst year

194 Belacrus was left by Alexander to command in Egypt. See Arran (ii, 5).

195 The capital ofthe old Phrygian kings. It was rbuit inthe time of Augustus, and
called Jliopois

196 This Ptolemy was kiled a the battle of Isus (Arrian, i110),

4197 We lear from Curtus (v.34) that Alexander released these prisoners at the equest
‘of ambassadors from Athens, who met him in Syria after his return from Egypt


Page 177, Instance 0, Class: Text
199 Now called Cape Siri, the west point of the island

200 The southern point of Euboca, now called Cape Mandi Cf: Homer (Ou. i
im),

201. The south-castem point of Laconia, now called Cape Malia di St. Angelo. It was
«dreaded by ancient mariners; see Homer (Odhsse x. 80); Ovid (Amores, i 16,24; Vegi
(Ceneid, v. 193) There was a saying: Mahéae dé kaqyas éxi.aBov ray obeade (Strabo,
iil. p. 250)

202 In accordance with the convention of Corinth. Compare next chapter. For the pillars
compare Herodotus (i. 102, 106); Thucydides (¥. 18, 47, 6); Aristophanes (4eharnians,
727; Lyssa, 513),

208 This weaty was concluded by the Spartans with the king of Persia, nc. 387. It was
designed to break up the Athenian supremacy. It stipulated that all tbe Grecian colonies in
‘Asia were t be given to the Persian king; the Athenians were to retain only Imbros, Lesbos,
and Scyros; and all the other Grecian cities were to be autonomous, See Xenophon
(Hellenes, iv. 856.1),

208 Chi 13 ine,

208 “Cyclades ideo sic appellatac, quod omnes ambiunt Delon party. deorum
insignem."-~Ammianus, xxi 8,2. Cf. Horace (Carmi 14, 195 i 28, 14).

200 Ck. Vegi (Aeneid, i. 21).

207 The regent of Macedonia and Greece during Alexander's absence.

208 One of the Cyclades, a litle t the north-east of Melos. It was noted for the low
‘morality ofits inhabitants. See Aristophanes (Fragment, 558; onthe authority of Suidas)

200 Eurpus properly means any narrow sea, where the ebb and flow of the tide is
Violent. The name was especially applied tothe stat between Bocotia and Euboea, where
the ancients asserted the sea cbbed and flowed seven times in the day (Strabo, is. 1).
Modem observers have noticed these extraordinary tides. The present name of the island,
Negropont, isthe Italian name formed from Euro, the modern corruption of Euripus. CE
Cicero, pro Muraena, xvii—Quod fretum, quem Euripum tot mots, tanas, tam varias
habere putats apitationes factuim, quantas perturbationes ct quantos aestus habet ratio
‘comitiorum. Aristotle, Ethica Nicomache, ix. 6x rowairew yp péver vs oukiua,
xl ob yexapeloxep Eipinas,

210 One ofthe Cyclades, about half-way between Attica and Siphnus.

211 éxurevan, a poetical farm for émuxtéoa,

LURE Justin, xi7

2S CE Curtis, ii 2 (Zumpt’s edition); Plutarch (Alexander, 18)

‘214 Now called Angora. Inthe time of Alexandr the country was named Great Phrygia,
the term Galatia being afterwards applied toi, from the fact that it was conquered by the
‘Gauls inthe Sed century a.

213 Now called Kizi-lemak, Le the Red River It isthe largest iver in Asia Minor, and
Separated the empires of Persia and Lydia, until the conquest ofthe latter by Cyrus.

216 The chief pass over the Taurus between Cappadocia and Cilicia It is more than
5,600 fect above the set-level. Its madera name is Golek-Boghaz, CE Curtus, i, 9-1. Itis
called TaurtPylue by Cicero (Epistlae ad dticun, v.20, 2),

212 See Xenophon (Anabusis i 2, 20,21).

218 Curtius (ii 11) says, that Alexander wondered at his own good fortune, when he
‘observed how easly Arsames might have blocked up the pass. Cyrus the Younger was
‘equally fortunate in finding this impregnable pass abandoned by Syennesis, king of Cilicia


Page 178, Instance 0, Class: Text
4,). AU Tarsus the emperor Julian was buried. See Ammianus, xxv. 10, 5. -

220 Probably none of the physicians would venture to prescribe, for fear of being held
responsible for his deat, which seemed likely to ensve. Nine years after, when Hephaestion
died of fever at Echatana, Alexander caused the physician who had attended him to be
‘rucified. See Arian, vi. 14; Plutarch (Alexander, 72,

221 CE Cutis, ii. 14-16; Diodorus, xvi. 31; Justin, xi. 8; Plutarch (Alex, 19). The
barbarous conduct of Alexander towards Pilots four years aftr, when contrasted with his
noble confidence in Philip, shows the bad effect of his unparalleled success, upon his moral
‘character.

222 This pass was called the Syrian Gates, lying between the shore of the Gl of Issus
and Mount Amanus. Cyrus the Younger was six days marching from Tarsus through this
pass. See Xenophon (Anahi. 4). The Grecks often gave the name of Assyria to the country
usualy called by them Syria. The Hebrew name for itis Aram (highland). CE, Cicero (ad
Diversos, . 4,4); Dio. xv. 2

223 Acity of Cilicia on the coast, a litle west ofthe mouth ofthe Cydus.

204 Said to have been the last ofthe Assyrian kings

225 Cl. Sabo (xv. 8) fora description of tis statue.

226 This was, doubtless, the arrow-headed writing which has been deciphered by Sir
Henry Rawlinson, Cf Herodotus i 87; Thucydides, 50

222 Now called Mezetlu. It was @ Rhodian colony on the coast of Cilicia, between the
rivers Cydaus and Lamus. It was afterwards re-named Pompeioplis. The birthplace of
Philemon, Aratus, and Chrysippus.

228 About £49,000,

209 Asander was a nephew of Parmenio, He afterwards brought a reinforcement to
Alexander from Greece (via, iv. 7). Aer the king's death he obtained the rule of Cara,
but joining the pary of Ptolemy and Cassander, he was defeated by Antgonus, be. 313,

230 These were Carian cites.

231. Cos, the birthplace of Apelles and Hippocrates, is one ofthe group of islands called
Sporades, off the coast of Caria. Triopium isthe promontory terminating the peninsula of
(Caidus, the south-west headland of Asia Minor. CE Tibulus, i 3, $7: Properus 2 1
1,§; Hevodows, i174

232 Called by the Romans, Aesculapius. He was the god of the medical art, and no
‘doubt Alexander sacrificed to him, and celebrated the games, in gratitude for his recovery
fom the fever he had had at Tarsus

283 This plain is mentioned in Homer, vi 201; Herodons, vi. 98. The large river
Pyramus, now called han, falls into the sea near Malus.

234 Mallus was said to have been founded by Amphilochus after the fll of Troy. This
hero was the son of Amphiaais, the great prope of Argos, whom Zeus issu t0 have
made immortal. Magarsus, of Megarsa, was the port of Mallus. The difference of meaning
between Bie and vaca is seen from Herodotus, i 44; Plutarch (Moral it p. 857 D)

235 Usually called the Syrian Gates. See chap. v- note! supe

236 A city on the Gulf of Isus, being a settlement of the Phoenicians. Herodoms (iv. 38)
calls the gulf the Myriandrie Gulf. CE. Xenophon (nab.

230 CE Arian, vi. 29; Curtus, vii 17.

238 Acschines tells us in his sposch against Ctesiphon (p. $52), that the anti-
“Macedonian statesmen at Athens a this ime received letters from ther fiends, stating that
Alexander was caught and pinned up in Cilicia, He says Demosthenes went about showing
these letters and boasting of the news. Josephus (Antiquities of the Jews, xi. 7, 3) says that


Page 179, Instance 0, Class: Text
Macedonians would not so much as come to a battle with the Persians, on account of their
multitude.”

230 There are two passes by which the easter counties are entered from Cilicia one on
the South, near the sea leads into Syria. The other pass lies more tothe north, and leads to
the country near the Euphrates. Te later was called the Amanic, andthe former the Syn
fate. Alexander had just passed throug the Syeian gate inorder to march against Darius, at
the very time that Darus was descending into Cilicia by the Amanie gate, and occupying
Issus with his advanced guard. Alexander, who had reached Myriandrus in Syria, made a
‘countermarch to meet Darius. Plutarch (Aiex., 20) says that they missed each othe inthe
night, whichis quite a mistake

240 CE Sallust (Carina, 9}; Csr Bell Galli. 25).

241 See Xenophon nab, il. 3)

242 At Cunaxa, Xenophon (i 2,6) does not mention the name of the place where the
bate was fought, but says that he was informed it was only 360 stadia (about 40 miles)
fom Babylon, We get the name Cunaxa from Plutarch Life of Artaseres, c §), who syst
was 500 stadia (about 58 miles) from Babylon.

243 Callsthenes the historian, who accompanied Alexander into Asia, sates thatthe
breadth ofthe plain between the mountain and the sea was not more than fourteen stadia, or
a ite more than one English mile anda half. See Poly, xi. 17

24 These seem to have been foreign mercenaries. Sce Polbius,v 79, 82; Srabo, xv.3.
Hesyehius says that they were nota nation, but foreigners serving fr pay.

245 Callisthenes—as quoted in Polybius, xi, 18—reckoned the Grecian mercenaries of
Danus at 30,000, and the cavalry at 30,000, Arran enumerates 90,000 heavy-armed, not
including the eavalry. Yet Polybius tres to prove that there was not room even foF the
60,000 troops mentioned by Callsthenes.

246 “The depth ofthis single phalans isnot given, nor do we know the exact widn of
‘he ground which it occupied. Assuming a depth of sixteen, and one pace in breath to each
Soldier, 4,000 men would stand in the breadth of a stadium of 250 puces; and therefore
0,000 men in a breadth of twenty stadia. Assuming «depth of twenty-six, 6,500 men would
stand in the breadth of the stadium, and therefore 90,000 in a total breadih of 14 stadia,
Which is that given by Kallisthenes. Me. Kinser states that the breadth between Mount
Aman andthe sea varies between one and s half mile and three miles."—Grote

24 Diodorus (xvi. 31), and Plutarch (Ale, 18) give the same number; but Justin (x
9) says the Persians numbered 400,000 infantry and 100,000 cavalry. It took five days for
them to cross the Euphrates, over bridges of boat (Cwtius, i. 17). The money alone ofthe
king required 600 mules and 300 camels to convey it(Cwtius, i 8),

248 CE Arian ii 115 and Xenophon (Anab, i. 8,21, 22)

249 See Donaldson's New Cratylus, set. 178

250 CE Xenophon (Chvopaciia, vi. 1,6)

251 In describing the batle of Arbela, Arian mentions eight distinct squadrons of
“Macedonian heavy cavalry, which was known by the name of the Companions. Among the
squadrons several if no all, were named after particular towns or district of Macedonia, as
here, Anhemus, and Leuge. We also find mention ofthe squadrons of Botiaca, Amphipolis,
and Apollonia. See also Arvian i 2:12. UL

252 sf run BeSouopévos. An expression imitated from Thucydides, v.34; compare
Arran, i. UL, ¥.19; i. 16, where the same words ae used of Porus and the Indians.

253 xoutvay rg efihayyos. An expression imitated from Xenophon (Ana i. 8.18). It
is praised by Demetrius (De Elocuttone, 84). Kiger reads éocuivav. Ct. Plutarch
(Pompey, 69)


Page 180, Instance 0, Class: Text
Diodorus (xvii. 36) says, that 450 Macedonians were killed. Justin (xi, 9) states that 280
were sain,

25 Polybius, who lived nearly three centuries before Arian, censures Callsthenes for
asserting thatthe Persian cavalry crossed the river Pinarus and attacked the Thessalians. No
‘doubt Arian received this information from the lost works of Ptolemy and Aristobulus
(Pot, xi. 18,

256 dyes is the poetical form of Gvufiims, dhe word used by Xenophon, Plato, and
‘other Attic writers. The latter is found only once in Arian (IL xi 5).

282. ev nei is Martin's emendaton for fs me,

258 Curtis (it. 27) and Diadorus (xvi. 34) give a graphic description ofa direct charge
made by Alexander upon Darius, and a sanguinary confit between Alexander's bod-guard
and the Persian nobles, in which the Great King’s horses were wounded and became
unmanageable, whereupon Darius got out, mounted a horse, and fled, We lear from
Plutarch (4lee, 20) that Chars affirmed Alexander came into hand-to-hand conflict with
Dans, and that he received a Wound in the thigh ffom that king's sword. Plutarch says that
Alexander wrote to Antipaer that he had been wounded in the thigh with a dagger, but did
not say by whom, He aso wrote that nothing serious had resulted from the wound. The
account of Arian is far the most trustworthy. Callisthenes stated that Alexander made a
sleet attack upon Darius (Polbius, xi. 22). We know from Xenophon that the Persian
kings were in the habit of occupying the centre, and that Cyrus directed Clearchus to make
the attack against the person of his brother Artaxerxes atthe batle of Cunaxa. Poybius
scems to have been ignorant ofthis custom of the Persian kings when he wrote his criticism
‘on the statement of Callsthenes,

289 dgeitero. On this word see Donaldson (New Craus, sec. 315). Cf. Aeschglus
(Persae, 428); Thueydides is. 134); Xenophon (Hellenics, 2, 16)

260) The victories of the Grecks and Macedonians over the Persians were materially
aided by the pusillanimity of Xerxes and Darius. Compare the conduct of Xerxes at Salamis
(Herodots, vii 97; Aesehflus, Persae, 465-470, with Me. Paley’s note) and that of Darius
at Abela (irri, i. 1).

261 Diodorus (svi. 36) and Curtus (i. 29) agree with Arian a to the number of slain
in the army of Darius. Plutarch ex, 20) gives the number a5 110,000.

262 Justin (x. 9) agrees with Arsan, that dhe wife of Darius was also his sister. Grote
speaks ofthe mother, wife and sister of Darius being captured, whichis an eror. Diodorus
(vi 38) and Cutus (ii 39) say that the son was about sx years of age.

263 Cl. Xenophon (Ciropaedia i. 1,3; vil 5,88)

265 Damascus,—the Hebrew name of which is Dammesek—a very ancient city in
Syria, atthe foot ofthe Antilibanus, at an elevation of 220 fet above the sea, ina spacious
and frie plain about 30 miles in diameter, which is watered by three rivers, two of which
ae called inthe Bible Abana and Pharpar. [eas still a population of 150,000, The emperor
Julian, in one of his leters, calls it "the Eye of all the East.”

265 About £730,000.

266 a6, 333; end of October or beginning of November

267 Alexander erected three altars on the bank of the Pinarus, 10 Zeus, Heracles, and
Athena (Curtius, ii, 33). Cicer, who was proconsul of Cilicia, speaks of “the altars of
‘Alexander at the foot of Amanus,” and says that he encamped there four days (Epstolae ad
Diversos, x. 4,

268 About £12,000,

269 This distinguished general saved Alexander’ life in India, inthe assault on the city
‘of the Mallians. After the king’ death, he received the rule ofthe lesser or Hellespontine
Shecain, Ue anne dieferted ant cluin he the Atheniscewnsles Amtinhihte, cecinct hime wae,


Page 181, Instance 0, Class: Text
210 Compare Diodorus, xvii. 37, 38; Curtis, i, 29-32.

211 Named Sisygambis,

202 Ina leter writen by Alexander to Parmenio, an extract from which is preserved by
Plutarch (Alex. 22) he says that he never saw nor entertained the desire of secing the wife
‘of Darius, who was said to be the most beutiful woman in Asi; and that he would not
allow himself to listen to those who spoke about er beauty. Ch. Aovnianus (xxiv. 4, 27),
speaking of Julian: “Ex vinpnibus autem, quae speciosae sunt capte, ut in Persde, ubi
feminarum pulehrindo excellt, nce contrectare aliquam voluit, nee videre: Alexandrum
imitatus et Afrieanum, gui bice declinabant, ne frangerctur cupiditate, qui se invictos a
lnboribus ubique prucstiterunt.”

203 Thapsacus is understood tobe identical with the city called Tiphsach (passage) in
Kings iv. 24; which is there std to have been the castem boundary of Solomon's empire. It
is generally supposed thatthe mode Deir occupies the ste ofthe ancient Thapsacus; butt
has been discovered thatthe only ford inthis part ofthe river i at Surych, 168 miles above
Deir. This was probably the ste of Thapsacus. From the time of Seleucus Nicator the city
was called Amphipolis (Pliny, v.21), See Stephanus of Byzantium, sub voce Amphipols,
Cf Xenophon (Anabasis, i 4, 1).

224 The Euphrates isthe largest river of western Asia, and rises in the mountains of
Armenia. It unites withthe Tigris, and after a course of 1,780 miles flows into the Persian
‘Gulf. It is navigable by boats for 1,200 miles. The annual inundation, caused by the melting
‘of the snow in the mountains of Avmenia, takes place in the month of May. The Euphrates,
Tigns, and Eulacus had formerly thee separate outlets into the Persian Gulf; but the three
now unite ina single steam, which is ealled Shat-cl-Arab. The Hebrew name for the river
Which the Grecks called Euphrates, was Pécath (rapid stream). It is called in the Bible, the
Great River, and the River (Gen. xv. 1%; Exod, xxii. 31; ef passin). In Jeremiah xi. 4-7,
the word Pérath stands for Ephvath, another name for Bethlehem; in our Bible itis mis-
translated, See Firsts Helvew Lexicon

205 The term Cénaan was applied to the lowland plain from Aradus to Gaza, The
nortbem portion, from Armdus 10 Camel, is known to us under its Grecian name of
Phosnicia, which is probably derived from the Greek phoinis (a palmetrce), which grew
sbundantly in the country, ad was the emblem of some of its towns. Others derive it rom
another Greek word poinix (sed. de), which formed one of its most important
‘manufactures. The Phoenicians applied the term Cenaan to their land in contrast 10 the
highlands tothe west, which they called Aram (highland, the Hebrew name for Syria. The
‘country of Phoenicia was 120 miles long and with an average breadth of 12 miles, never
exceeding 20 miles. The chict cities of Phoenicia were Tyre, Sidon, Armdus, Byblus,
erytus, Tripolis, and Accho of Ptolemais. is central position between the easter and
westem countries, early developed its commercial power, and its intercourse with feign
nations at an early period produced an advanced stat of civilization and refinement. The
Phoenicians were a Semitic nation hike the Isaclites; and their language bears a remarkable
affinity with the Hebrew, as is seen by fragments ofthe Carthaginian language preserved in
Plautus. In an inscription discovered at Marseilles in 1845, out of 94 words 74 were found
in the Hebrew Bible. The Phoenicians were asserted by the Greeks t have communicated 19
them the knowledge of leters; and this statement is comoborated by the similarity of the
Hebrew and ancient Greck leters. Their colonies spread from Cyprus to Crete and the
(Cyclades, thence to Euboea, Greece, and Thyace. The coasts of Asia Minor and Bithynia
were dovied with their setlements, and they carried their commerce into the Black Sea
They also had colonies in Sicily, Sardinia, Ivica, and Spain, where they founded Cadiz. The
northem coast of Africa was lind with their colonies, the most flourishing of which was
Carthage, which rose to be one ofthe great powers ofthe world. Strabo says that they had
300 colonies on the westem coast of Aftica. They visited the coasts of England for tn; and
thus, to quote the words of Humboldt, “the Tyrian flag waved at the same time in Briain


Page 182, Instance 0, Class: Text
The reason which he assigns for his disbelief is, that the navigators alleged that the sun was
‘on their right hand, which is the strongest argument in favour of the truth of ther statement.
In stiah xxi. 11, Phocnicia scaled CEnaan, where the English Bible as eroncously, the
‘merchant ety: Inthe Bible the word CEnaanim is frequently used for merchants, because
the Phoenicians were the principal commercial people of antiquity (Job xi 6; Prov. xx
24; Isiah xxi. 8; Hos. x. 7; Zep. i. 25 Zech. xiv. 21). Tipolis consisted of three distinct
itis, 600 feet apart, each having its own walls, but all united in a common constitution
With one place of assembly. These cities were colonies respectively of Sidon, Tyre, and
Arad. Tripolis was a lourishing port on a ieadland which is spur of Lebanon Iti now
‘alld Tripoli, and is stil a large town, See Dr. Smith's Dictionary of Classical Geography:

211 The oldest towns in Cyprus—Citium, Amathus, and Paphus,—were Phoenician
colonies. These were afterwands eclipsed by the Greek colonies, Salamis, Soli, and New
Paphus. In Hebrew the island is called Ceth, and the inabitants Citi. Gesenvs says, that
upon a Sidonian coin Ceth in Cyprus, which the Greeks called Citium, is described as a
Sidonian colony. Diodorus (xv. 42) says there were nine kings in Cyprus It is probable that
the kings of the Hittites mentioned in | Kings x. 29, were from Cyprus. Also the Hitite
women whom Solomon maried were probably Cyprians (1 Kings x 1. The kings of the
Hitites of whom the Syrians were afraid were also Cypriots (2 Kings vi. 6); and the land
of the Hinites mentioned in Judges i. 26, probably means Cyprus. Josephus, Eusebius, and
Jerome understand these passages to refer to Cyprus. In Isaiah xxi. 1, the land of Cia
refers to Cyprus, which belonged to"Tye, the revolt af which the propict announced, This
revoltis confirmed by Menander Josephus, ix 14,9)

217 Agis IL was ultimately defeated and slain by Antipater, .¢. 330. See Curia, vi. 1
and 2; Grote’s Greece, vol. xi. pp. 102-106,

218 About £7,300,

229 Now Cape Matapan. CE Proper, it. 2, 11; Tibullus, ii. 3, 13; Homer (man 10
Apollo, 41).

280 The Cretans were very early civilized and powerful, for we read in Homer of their
100 cities. Before the Trojan war lived the famous king Minos, who is said to have given
laws to Crete, and to have been the fist potentate who possessed a navy with which he
suppressed piracy in the Aegean Sea, The Cretans gradually degenerated, so that we find in
the New Testament St Paul quoting from their own post, Epimenides: “Always liars and
beasts are the Cretan, and inwardly sluggish” (Titus i. 12). The lying propensity of the
‘Cretan is proved frm the fact that the ver fo Cretize, was used in Grock withthe meaning
“speak falsely” In Hebrew, Crete i called Caphior (yess). Itis mentioned in Jet xvi
4-lewas the native land ofa tribe of Philistines called Caphtorim (Gen. x. 14; Deut i 23:1
(Chron. i, 12). The fact thatthe Philistines came parly feom Crete is also affirmed in Amos
ix 7. Another branch of the Philistines came fiom Casloach in Egypt. The Caphtorim
emigrated orginally from Egypt to Crete, from which island they were probably driven by
the Grecks. Tacitus asserts thatthe inhabitants of Palestine came from Crete (Historie, v
2); and the eatly name of Gaza was Minos, afer the famous king of Crete. Another Hebrew
name for Crete is Creth, whence the inhabitants were called Céréhim. They are mentioned
in Ezek. xxv. 16, and Zeph i. 5; where the Septuagint and the Syriac have Cretans. We find
the Philistines, who were partly emigrants from Crete, called Cerethim in 1 Sam. xxx. [4
From among these Cerethim and Plilistines David chose his body-guard, which was
‘composed of men skilled in shooting and slinging (2 Sam. vii 18, v.18, xx. 7,28; 1 Kings
1.38, 44; 1 Chron. avi 17,

281 From Diodorus (xvi 48) it appears that Agis went personally to Crete, and
‘compelled most of the cities to join the Persian side. We also leam thatthe deputies ofthe
Greeks assembled at the Isthmian games at Corinth sent an embassy to Alexander 10
‘congratulate him on his vitory at Isus, and to present him with a golden wreath. (See also
ee


Page 183, Instance 0, Class: Text
282 Cocle-Syria, or Hollow Syria, is, in its more limited sense, the country between the
ranges of Libanus and Anti-Libsnus, in which Damascus and Bualbek are situated; in its
wider meaning, it comprises the whole of Northern Syria, in opposition to the counties of
Phosnicia and Palestine.

283 Aradus isan island lying two or three miles from the mainland of Phoenicia
According to Swabo, a State was founded init by efugees from Sidon, For along time the
island was independent, under its own kings; and even ater it fell under the sway of the
“Macedonian kings of Syria, and subsequently under that ofthe Romans, it retained @ great
deal ofits commercial prosperity. Aradus appears in Hebrew under the form Arvad. Its
evident from Ezek. xvi 8,11 that its inabtans were skilfl sailors and brave warriors,
They sent out colonies to Aradus south of Carmel, the island of Aradus near Crete, and the
islands inthe Persian gulf. The present name of this island is Ruad. The Aradians inhabited
‘he mainland opposite the island, as well asthe island itsel

2 Artaxerxes Ochs reigned mc. 359-338,

285 Perinthus was a Samian colony on the Propontis. For the siege by Philip, sce
Diodorus, xi. 4-6.

26 Impartial historians deny that Philip's murderers were bribed; they committed the
murder from private resentment

287 Ochus was poisoned about w.c. 338, by the eunuch Bagoss, who placed upon the
throne Arses, one ofthe king's sons, killing all the rest. CE. Aelian (Jaria Historia, vi. 8).
Tho years afterwards, Bagoas put Arses and al is children to death; thus leaving no dict
heir ofthe regal family alive. He then placed upon the throne one of his adherents, named
Darius Cadomannus, a descendant of one of the brothers of Artaxerxes Memon, Bagoas
Soon afterwards tried to poison this Darius; but the later, discovering his teacher, forced
him to drink the deadly draught himself (Dio, xvi. §; Justin, x. 3). From Aria i. 19,
wwe eam tht Bstanes, a som of Ochus, was alive after the bate of Arba

2A} Aeschines, in his speech against Ctesipon (p. 634), asserts that Darius sent 300
talents to Athens, thatthe Athenians refused them, and that Demosthenes took them,
reserving 70 talenis fr his own private use. Deinarchus repeats tis statement in his speech
against Demosthenes. (pp. 9-14). If Demosthenes had relly acted thus, itis stange
Alexander knew nothing about i

280 This statement of Arsan is confirmed by Curtis (i. 34), who says that Parmenio
‘captured the treasure notin the city, but from fugitives who were conveying it away.

200 In giving the names ofthe captured Grecian envoys, Curtus (i 35) seems to have
‘confounded this with a future ocetsion, mentioned in rian (i. 24).

201 The great Iphicrates had been adopted by Alexander's grandfather, as i stated in a
note on Book | chap. 25

202 Byblus is said by Strabo (xvi. 2) to have been situated on height not far fom the
sea It was reported tobe the oldest city inthe world. It possessed a considerable extent of
temitory, including Berytus, and was an independent Sate for a long period, the last king
being deposed by Pompey. On a Byblus coin of Alexander's time appears the name Eine,
which isthe king Enylus mentioned by rian (i 20). Byblus was the chief seat of the
worship of Adonis, or Thammuz, who was supposed to have been born there In the Bible it
appears under its Hebrew name Gehal mountan-district. The inhabitants of Gebal are std
in Ezek. xxv 9 19 have been skilled in building ships. In Josh xii. § the northern boundary
‘of the Holy Land is said to reach as far asthe land ofthe Giblite or inhabitant of Gebal. In 1
Kings v. 18 the won! translated in our Bible stone-squarers ought to be rendered Gibltes,
The Arabs sil all the place Jebal. CE. Milton (Paradise Lost, vii. 18)

298 Sidon, or in Hebrew Tin (fortress) is called in Gen. x. 18,19 the frsthom son of
‘Canaan, Le. it was the first city founded by the Canaanites or Phoenicians. It lay about
twenty miles south of Tyre, on a small promontory two miles south ofthe river Bostremus
‘We readin Homer that it was famous for its embroidered robes and metal utensils, and from
‘other ancient writers we find that it manufactured glass and linen and also prepared dyes.


Page 184, Instance 0, Class: Text
Before the time of David it fell under the rule of Tyre; but when Shalmaneser, king of
Assyria, invaded Phoenicia, it revolted from Tyre and submitted to the invader. It was
governed by its own kings under the Babylonian and Persian empires; and under the later
Power it reached its highest prosperity, surpassing Tyre in wealth and importance. In the
Expedition of Xerxes against Greece, the Sidonians furnished the best ships in the whole
Ace, and their king obtained the highest place under Xerxes in the council. But they
revolted against Ochus, king of Persia and being betrayed to him by their own king Tennes,
‘hey burt thee city and ships. I is sid that 40,000 persons perished in the fire and by the
sword, mc. 381. (Diodorus, xvi. 43-45). No doubt this barbarous treatment of Ochus
induced the Sidonians to take the side of Alexander. The city was already built and again
flourishing when that king appeared on the scene. Near the site of the ancient city is the
present town of Sada, with @ population of about $,000. Cf. Homer (liad, vi. 289: xxi
741); Lucan ii 217

204 At Sidon, Alexander deposed the reigning king Stato, a friend of the Persians; and a
Poor man, named Abdalonymus, distantly related tothe regal family, was put into his place
(Curtis, i. 3, 4). Diodorus (xvi. 47) tells the same story, but applies itt Tyre, probably
by mistake

295 The Hebrew name for Tyre is Tor fock) In Isa. xxi. 4 i is called the fortess of
the Sea; and in ver. 8, “Tse, the crowning one,” because Tyre gave rulers to the Phocnician
cities and colonies. Valuable information about the power, tade, and customs of Tyre is
derived from Ezek. xxvi-cevil; and we lear the fact that she employed mercenaries like
her colony Carthage (Ezek. xxvii. 10, 11)-In the classical writers the name is corrupted into
‘Tyrus, and someumes into Sarra. Tyre was unsuccessfilly besieged for five Years by
Shalmaneser. It was also besieged for thrten years by Nebuchadnezzar, and in the end an
alliance was formed, by which the Tyrians retained their own king asa vassal of the king of
Babylon. This arrangement was continued under the kings of Persia,

296 Cwtius (iv. 7) tells us thatthe envoys also brought to Alexander a golden wreath,
together with abundant supplies for his army

207 This king must have brought home his ships for the defence of Tyre, for he was in
the city when it was captured. See chap. 24

208 The Phoenician god Melkarth (lord of the city), whom the Syrians called Baal
(lord), was supposed to be identical with the Grecian Heracles, or Hercules, who was the
mythical ancestor of the Macedonian kings. Cutus (iv. 7) tells us that Alexander affirmed
he had been ordered by an oracle to sacrifice in Tyre to Heracles. Gesenius informs us that a
“Maltese inscription identifies the Tyrian Meikarth with Heracles,

209 Who was the son of Labdacus.

300 See Herodonus, ii. 43, 44

301 The district comprising ll the south-west of Spain ouside the pillars of Heracles, or
Swaits of Gibraltar, was called Tartesis, of which the chief ity was Tartessus. Here the
Phoenicians planted colonies, one of which still remains under the name of Cadiz. The
Romans called the district Bactic, from the principal river, the Betis or Guadalguivr. The
Hebrew name fr ths region is Tarshish, of which Tatessus isthe Greek form. Tashish was
the station for the Phoenician trade withthe West, which extended as far as Cornwall. The
Tyrians fetched from this locality silver, ro, lead, tn, and gold (Isa xii. 1,6, 10, lev. 19;
Jer. x. 9; Ezck. xi, 12, xxwvitl. 13), Marial, Seneca, and Avienus, the fist two of whom
were Spaniards, understood Taressus o stand forthe south-west of Spain and Portugal. The
Word Tarshish probably means sea-coas,ffom the Sanscrittarischa, the sa. Ovid (Met,
iv 416}; Martial, ii 28; Sits, xii, 673.

302 OF Miletus. Herodotus knew his writings well, but they have not come down tous
See Herod. i143; . 36 and 125).

303 The Iberans were originally called Tibarenes, or Tibar. They dwelt on the east of
the Black Sea, and west of Colchis, whence they emigrated to Spain. This nation is called
Tubal in the Hebrew Bible; in Is, Ini. 19 the Iberians of western Europe are referred to.


Page 185, Instance 0, Class: Text
308 Now called Art

306 Arian omits to mention thatthe Tyrians pointed out to him that his wish to sacrifice
to Hercules might be gratified without entering their city, since at Palaetyrus, on the
mainland, separated from Tyre only by a narrow strat, was a temple of that deity more
fncien than that in Tyre. See Cuts 7; Justin, xi, 10. We learn from Arvian, i 18, that
When Alexander offered sacrifice to the Ephesian Diana he marched tothe temple with his
Whole aimiy in battle aay: No doubt it was this kind of thing the Tyrians objected to,
‘Alexander actually did the same at Tyre aftr its capture. (See chapter 24.)

307 Fortis use of éviawov, ef: Homer (lad i. $6); Aristophanes (Wasps, 1218)

308 Cl. Arvin, i 1 and 25 supra

309 The island was about half a mile fom the mainland and about a mile in length

310 We learn from Diodorus (xvi 40) thatthe breadth of this mole was about 20 feet,

‘BIL Curius (iv. 10) says that the timber was procured fom Lebanon, and the stones
from Old Tyre onthe mainland

312 Ck Polyaenus (iv. 3).

313 CE. Casar (Bell Gall, vii. 24}—reliquasque res, quibus ignis excitari potest,
fundebant. Kiger has unnecessarily altered éi ai into &* aby (Le. pipe).

‘314 Cuts (iv. 12) says thatthe stern was loaded with tones and sand

‘315 Diodorus (svi. 42) and Curtis (v.12) say that a great tempest helped to demolish
the palisade

{316 We lear from Josephus (Aniguites of the Jews, ix. 14), on the authority of
“Menande, that when Shalmanesr, king of Assyria, four centuries before Alexander's time,
besieged Tye, the other Phoenicians supplied him with ships in lke manner.

LT This was a state vessel, or guardship, similar to the Paralus and Salaminia at
Athens. See Aleiphvon, Bk. Epistle 1 with Bergler's note

[BIS See Arran, i 2 supa

‘319 Curis (iv. 11) says that about thirty of the Macedonians collecting timber in
Lebanon were killed by a party of wild Arabs, and that afew were also captured by them,
Lehanon is a Hebrew word meaning whit, lke lps. It was so called on account of is
white cliffs, just as Britain sealed by Aristo, Albion, the Celtic for white

220 Plutarch (Life of Alexander, 24) gives us, on the authority of Chars, some details of
daring valour on the par of Alexander inthis expedition,

4321 Cleander was put to death by Alexander for oppression in exercising his duties as
governor of Medi. See Arvian, vi. 27 infta,

322 In regard to this maneevre, see Herodotus, vi. 12: Thueides, i 49, with Arnold's

323 copemmyuévar-—"In the best authors aya is used asthe pert pass. of riya”
(Liddell Seon) CE. 12,4524, 4, infe,

324 Cl Plutus (Mereator, i 2,8), hortatr romigum.

325 Amathus was a town on the south coast of Cyprus. It is now called Limasol. Cf
Herodons, v- W4-115; Tacitus (Ann, i 62); Nergil ened, x. 1),

326 Curium was also town on the south coast of Cyprus.

322 Diodorus (xvi, 48) says, tha after Admetus was killed, Alexander recalled his men
from the assault that night, but renewed it next day.


Page 186, Instance 0, Class: Text
caer cence eine enn ees eee me ee ONE ON IYES EME NEON. SES
Gwin, v.19.

329 The Tyrans had been encouraged in ther resistance by the promise of aid from their
colony Carthage. But the Carthaginians excused themselves on the ground of their own
dlilicubis in contending with the Grecks. The Tyrians however despatched their women,
children, and old men to Carthage for safety. Se Diodorus, xvi. 40,41; Curdus, iv. 8 and
15, We lear from Diod. xx. 14, thatthe Carthaginians were inthe habit of sending tothe
Tyrian Hercules the tenth of their revenues.

$330 Diodorus (xvii 46) and Cutus (i. 19) state that 2,000 Tyrians who had escaped
‘he massacre were hanged onthe seashore by Alexander's order

{331 The end of July and beginning of August wc. 332. Diodorus (xvi. 46) tells us that
the siege lasted seven months. See also Curtius (iv. 20) and Plutarch (Life of Alevander, 24).
We find from Strabo (xvi. 2) that Tyre again became a flourishing city.

332 About £2,440,000

333 Diodorus (xi 54) puts the atval of this embassy aRer Alexander's conguest of
Egypt. Curtius (iv. 21) says that the name of the daughter whom Darius offered to
Alexander was Stati,

334 The term Palestine is derived from Pélesheth, the name given in Hebrew t the
‘coast district in the south-west of Palestine, the inhabitants of which were called Pisin,
‘or Philistines. As this tact of country lay directly between Phoenicia and Egypt, it became
known to the Grecks sooner than the rest of the Holy Land, and they called it Syria
Palacsting, The name was gradually extended uni it became the usual one forall the Holy
Land among Greck and Latin writers. An interesting account of Alexander's visit 19
Jerusalem and his dealings with the Jews is found in Josephus (ntigutes xi. 8)

335 Nearly two miles and aha. Strabo (xvi. 2) says thatthe city was only seven stades
from these

“380 Gaza isthe Greek form of the Hebrew name Azzah (fortress). Is positon on the
border of Fayptand Palestine has give it importance from the earliest times. It was one of
the five cities ofthe Philistines; and retained its own king tila late period, as we learn from
Zecharigh ix, 5. It was the scene of a battle between Richard I. and the Saracens, I is now
‘alled Guzzeh, with a population of 15,000

387 Compare Arian, i. 11 and 25; i, 18. Plutarch (Alex, 28) says thatthe bird was
entangled and caught among the nets and cord. See also Curtis, v.26.

S38 stadium equalled 606-3/4 fet.

339.CE Thuesdides i. 76 (description of the siege of Platacae),

$340 Diodorus (xvi 48) says thatthe siege of Gaza lasted two months. Polybius (x
40) speaks of th resolution and valour ofthe Gazacans. We lear from Curtis (iv. 28) and
from Dionysius of Halicarassus (De Conpositione Verborum, pp. 123-125) that Alexander
treated the brave Batis with hornble cruelty. He ordered his fet to be bored and brazen
rings to be put through them, after which the naked body was tied tothe back of a chariot
which was driven by Alexander himself round the city, in imitation of the treatment of
Hector by Achilles at Troy. Cf Arran, vii. 14. Dionysius quotes from Hegesias of
Magnesia, who wrote a history of Alexander, not now extant. Cutis says that nearly
10,000 ofthe Petsians and Arabs were slain at Gaza. Stra (xvi. 2) says tht in his time
(Ce. inthe reign of Augustus) the cty sil remained desolate, as it was let by Alexander.

‘4 Pelusium is identical with the Hebrew Sin (a marsh) the most easterly city of yp,
Which is ealled in Ezekiel xxx. 15, the strongoh of Egypt, because it was the key to that
country from its frontier postion. Cr. Heradoms, i. 5. Strabo (xvi 1) says it was situated
near marshes. It stood east of the Pelusize branch of the Nile, about 2-1/2 miles from the
sc, This mouth of the river was choked up with sand as early as the first century of the
‘Christian era (Lucan, vii, 468). Sennachenib advanced as far as this city, and here Cambyses


Page 187, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Salfap PRAMADAZUS, B.C. 270. \t. Vergn (Ceargic, b. £28), Martial, Xi. 2, MMs, Ul. 2 19.

5342 Curtus (v.22) says that this leet was under the command of Hephaeston.

$343 His predecessor, Sabaces, was slain a Issus. See rian i. 11 supra

344 Curtis (i. 29) says that Mazaces surrendered to Alexander treasure to the amount
‘of $00 talents, nearly £200,000

IS Memphis, the capital of Egypt, i called inthe Hebrew Bible, Noph. In Hosea ix. 6
itis called Moph. The Egyptian name was Ménoph, of which both Moph and Noph are
‘contractions. The name signifies place of Fiah, the Egyptian name for Vulean. Memphis
stood om the west bank ofthe Nile, and is sid by Herodotus (i. 99) 1 have been founded
by Menes. It had a circumference of fifteen miles. Iss umerous temples were famous and
aye mentioned in the pooms of Maral, Ovid, and Tibulls. It never recovered the
‘devastation commited by Cambyses, who was exasperated by its resistance. The rise of
‘Alexandria asthe capital under the Piolemies, hastened the decline of Memphis. At Gizch,
near Memphis, are the three great pyramids, being of the height respectively of 460, 446,
tnd 203 fect. Not fr off are six smaller ones. Near the second pyramid is the Sphins, cut
‘ut ofthe solid rock, which was probably an abject of worship. C.Apollodarus, it. 4

$346 Heliopolis s known in Hebrew as On, which is an Egyptian word meaning Su It is
‘mentioned in Gen. xi 45, 0; xlvi. 20. In Ezek. xxx. 17, it's called Aven, which isthe same
Word in Hebrew as On, with a variation ofthe vowels. In Jer. xli. 13 itis called Beth-
Shemesh, which in Hebrew means House ofthe Sun, a wanslation ofthe Egyptian name. The
‘Grecks called it Heliopolis, City of the Sun. The gret temple of the Sun and is priesthood
are described by Herodotus and Strabo. There are stil remaining a beauifl obelisk of ed
granite nearly 70 feet high, and the brick wall of the temple 3,780 fet long by 2,370 feet
broad. CE. Apoiodorus, i. 4

4347 The word Nile never occurs inthe Hebrew Bible: but that river is called Yeor
(iver) In Amos vi 8 ts ealled Yeor Mitsraim, the river of Eaypt; but iis usually called
simply Yeor, the river. In Is. xxii 3 the com of Egypt is called the harvest of Yeor, o the
Nile. In like manner Avon, Ganges, Rhine, mean river. The Greck name Neilos, or Nile,
means a bed with a stream, and was orginally applied tothe land of Egypt, asthe valley of
the Nile Itrses inthe lake Victoria Nyanza, and has a course of 3,300 miles. In Isa xi. 3
and Jeri. 18 the Niles called Shichor (turbid. In Homer (Od. iv. 477, ee) the river is
called Egypt as well asthe country. CE Ammianus, xxi 15.

‘3S The Bull of Memphis, sacred to Fra, the god of fire. See Herodotus, i. 27, 28;
Sivabo, xvi. 1; Ammiamus, xii 14; Ovid (Met, ix. 690),

549 Now Aboukir, about 13 miles nonh-cast of Alexandria, near the westernmost mouth
fof the Nile. CE Aeschjlus (Supp., 311; Prom., $46); Strabo, xvi. 1, 17; Tacitus (Amn, i
0)

350 Usually called Lake Maretis, now Marit. Cf. Vergil (George, ii. 91)

381 We leam, from Curtis (iv. 33), that Alexander at first resolved to build the ety on
the sland of Pharos, but finding i too small, built it on the mainland,

[382 A goddess representing the moon, and wife of Osiris the sun-god

383 CE. Siro (xvi, 1); Plutarch (Alex, 26); Diodorus (xvi, $2); Curtis (iv. 33),
Ammianus (xi. 16).

354 We find from Valerius Mavimus (i 4) and Ammianus, L., that is name was
Dinosrtes

385 Kriger substitutes dxewée for éxoie, comparing iv 1,3, and 4,1 ina

386 See Arran, i 2 supa

“457 Mcthymna was, next to Mitylene, the most important city in Lesbos.


Page 188, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Chacronca. Curtus (iv. 24) says that he consented to evacuate Mitylene with his force of
2,000 men on condition ofa fre departure

359 On an island in the Nile, of the same name, opposite Syene. It served as the
southern frontier garrison station

300 The temple of Jupiter Ammon was inthe oasis of Siwvah, to the West of Egypt Is
ruins were discovered by Browne in 1792. Ths oasis s about 6 mils long and 3 broad, The
people called Libyans occupied the whole of Nonh Africa excluding Egypt. In Hebrew they
ae called Lubio (sunburn). See 2 Chron. xii. 3; xvi 8; Dan. xi. 48; Nahi, 9. CE
Herodoms ii 32; iv. 168-199,

361 King ofthe island Seriphus. Cf Herodons, i 91

362 The gigantic son of Poseidon and Ge.

363 King of Egypt, who was said to have sacrifice all foreigners that visited the lan.

36! Perseus was the grandfather of Alemena, the mother of Hercules.

365 About 183 miles. This city ly atthe extreme west of Eayp, in Marmarica,

366 "For some distance onward the engincers had erected a line of telegraph poles to
side ws, but alter they ceased the desert was absolutely trackless, Our guides were the stars
had the night been overcast the enterprise would have heen impossible—and we were
stoored by a naval office, Licutenant Rawson, who had doubtless studied on previous nights
the relation ofthese celestial beacons t the course of our march, The centre ofthe line was
the point of direction; therefore he rode between the centre battalions (7Sth and 79) ofthe
Highland Brigade. Frequently in the couse ofthe night, after duly ascertaining what dark
figure I was addressing, | represented to him that his particular star was clouded over, but he
always replied that he had another in view, a second string o his bow, which he showed me,
tnd that he was convinced he had not deviated in the least from the proper direction, And he
was right, his guidance was marvellously cortect; for his reward, poor fellow, he was shot
down inthe assault, morally wounded. Here we were adi, but for the stars, in a region
Where no token existed on the surface by which to mark the course—any more than on the
‘ocean without  compassand the distance to be traversed was many miles."—Sir Edward
Hamley: “The Second Division at Telel-Kebin,” Nineteenth Century, December, 1882

362 Sirubo (avi 1) quotes from Callisthenes, whose work on Alexander is lost He
agrees with Aristobulus about the two ravens. Callsthenes is also quoted by Plutarch (ler,
27) in regard to this prodigy. Curtius (i. 30) says that there were several ravens; and
Diodorus (xvi 49) speaks of ravens

‘368 Nearly five miles. CE Lucan, ix. S11-543.

362 This Fountain ofthe Sun, as it is called, is 30 paces long and 20 broad; 6 fathoms
deep with bubbles constantly rising from the surface. Cf. Hevodons, iv. 181; Lucretius, vi
8494878; Ptolemy, iv. §, 37

‘310 This is what we call sal ammoniac, Known to chemists as hydochlorate of
ammonia. The dactyos was the smallest Gree measure of length, about 7/10 ofan inch.

311, We earn from Sizabo (xii. 1), on the authority of Callsthenes, thatthe declaration
‘of the oracle of Ammon was confirmed by those of Apollo at Branchidae near Miletus, and
‘of Athena at Exythrac in fonia, Plutarch (les. 28) and Arran (i, 29) asset that Alexander
Set afloat the declaration that he was the son of Zeus t overave the foreigners over whom
he was extending his ral.

‘322 Ewald and others think that Herodpolis was identical with the Raamses of the Bible
Raumses, or Rameses, isa Coptic word meaning “the son of the sun.”

RIA city founded by the Milesins on the Canopic branch of the Nile. It remained a
purely Greek city, being the only place where Greeks were allowed to sete and trade in
ey tn tae ine oR ade.


Page 189, Instance 0, Class: Text
(375 We learn, from Curtius (iv. 34), that Alexander went to Samaria to chastise the
inhabitants, who had burnt is deputy, Andromachus, o death

311 From carly times the Athenians kept two sacred vessels for state purposes, the one
called the Paras and the other Salaminia. Inthe earliest times the former was wed for
‘coasting purposes, andthe later for the journey o Salamis. Hence their respective names.
See Dr. Smith's Dit. of Antiquities. Aeschnes, in his eration agains Ctesiphon (p. $50),
asserts that he was informed by the seamen of the Pavalus that Demosthenes on this
‘occasion seta letter to Alexander soliciting pardon and favour,

RIZCL Actian, Varia Historia, i 28; Curtis, v.34

[RIX Beroca was a city of Macedonia, on the Astacus, a tibutary of the Haliacmon,
bout 20 miles from the sea

309 Other historians call this queen Cleopatia. She was the daughter of a Macedonian
named Attalus. Plutarch (lex. 9 and 10) says that she was cruelly pu to death by Olympias
during Alexanders absence. Justin (x. 7; xi. 2 states that Olympas fis slew her daughter
fon her mother's bosom and then had Cleopatra hanged; while Alexander put to death
CCaranus, the infant son of Philip and Cleopatra. Pausanias (vi. 7) says that Olympias
‘caused Cleopatra and her infant son to be roasted on a brazen vessel. CE Aelin (Varia
Historia, xi. 35),

0 This king was brother of Alexander's mother Olympias, and husband of Cleopatra
‘he daughter of Pilip and Olympias. He crossed over into lay to ai the Tarentnes against
‘he Lucanians and Bruttians, but was eventually defeated and slain near Pandosia, wc. 326,

{381 June-July, 6.331

382 We leam, from Cutius (i. 37), that Alexander took eleven days to march from
Phoenicia tothe Euphrates.

383 Curtis (v.37) says that Tigris is dhe Persian word for arrows and that he river was
so named on account ofthe swiftnes of ts curent. The Hebrew name is Chick, which
means wrow. See Gen. i, 14; and Dan. x. 4, where its called the grea river. The name
Tigris is derived from the Zend Tighra, which comes fom the Sansrit Tig, o sharpen. Its
now called Dijleh. I joins the Euphrates 90 miles from the sea, and the united steam is
called Shatel-Arab. Is entire length is 1,146 miles. In ancient times the two rivers had
distinct mouths. So the Rhon formerly had several mouths. See Lit xxi 26. Sirabo (iv,
'8) says that Timacus gave it five mouths; Polybius gives it two; others give seven,

‘384 This eclipse occurred September 20th, .¢. 331

[385 The par of Assyria lying between the Upper Tigris and the Lycus was called Aturia.

3 Called Carduchi by Xenophon. These mountains separate Assyria and Mesopotamia
fom Media and Armenia,

382 CF Aetian Varia Historia, xi 38)

388 Arachosia comprised what is now the south-ast part of Afghanistan and the north
‘ast part of Beloochistan

{389 Aria comprised the west and north-west part of Afghanistan and the east past of
Khorasan

300 Parthia is the modern Khorasan. Hyreania was the country south and south-east of
‘he Caspian Sea. The Tapurians dwelt in the north of Media, on the borders of Parthia
between the Caspian passes. Cf. Ammianus, xxi 6

£391 The Cadusians lived south-west of the Caspian, the Albanians on the west of the
same sea, in the south-east part of Geomgia, and the Sacesinians in the north-east ob
‘Armenia, onthe river Kur

392 The Red Sca was the name originally given to the whole expanse of sea to the west


Page 190, Instance 0, Class: Text
303 The Usians occupied the north-west of Persis, and Susiana was the country to the
north and west of Persis,

304 The Sitacenians lived in the south of Assyria. éexdyaro isthe Tonic form for
error fowv

395 The Greeks called this country Mesopotamia because it lies between the rivers
Euphrates and Tigris. Inthe Bible itis called Paddan-Aram (the plain of ram, which isthe
Hebrew name of Syria). In Gen, xvi. 7 i is called merely Paddan, the pin. In Hos, xi
13, its called the fed of ram, or, 25 our Bible bas it, the country of Shvia. Elsewhere in
the Bible it s called Aram-nahayaim, Aram of the two eivers, which the Greeks wanslated
“Mesopotamia tis called "mh Island,” by Arabian geographers

396 Curtis (iv 35 and 45) states that Darius had 200,000 infantry, 45,000 cavalry, and
200 seythed chariots; Diodorus (xvi. $3) says, 800,000 infantry, 200,000 cavalry, and 200
Scythed chariots; Justin (xi. 12) gives 400,000 foot and 100,000 horse; and Plutarch (Alex,
51) speaks ofa million of men, For the chariots ef, Xenophon (nab, 1.8, 10); Livy, xxxvi
41

397 This is the first instance on record ofthe employment of elephants in battle

308 This river is now called Ghasir, a tibutary ofthe Great Zab. The village Gaugamela
was in the district of Assyria called Atuna, about 69 miles fom the city of Arbela, now
called Erbil

390 About 7 mils.

400 Xenophon (Anab ii 4,38) explains why this was so,

401 pets here stands fo anak

402 See note 282 10,10 supra

40 These poople were a Scythian tribe leading a nomadic life east of the Caspian. They
are called Daoi by Herodotus, i128; Dahae by Ammianus, xxi. 8, 21; Livy, xxx. 48;
soxwvi 38; Veil (Aeneid, vii 728); Pliny, vi. 19; Soabo,xi 7. They are mentioned in Ezra
iv. 9 as subjects of Persia. The district is now called Daikh. See First's Hebrew Lexicon, sub
voce,

404 A title of honour. Curtius says that they numbered 15,000,

405 Cl, Herodons, vi 4

406 This people lived tothe south ofthe Caspian,

407 "Several names of various contingents stated to have been present in the fied are
not placed inthe offical return—thus the Sogdian, the Arians, and the Indian mountaincers
are mentioned by Arian as having joined Darius (i. 8); the Kossacans by Diodorus (xvi
59); the Sogdian, Massogatae, Belitc, Kossacans, Gorse, Phrygian, and Kataonians, by
Gurtius (iv. 12)" Grote

408 This distinguished general suceeded Antipater as regent of Macedonia, but was
‘overcome by Cassander, the son of the former, and became subordinate to him.

400 There were ths six taxes, or brigades of foot Companions, as they were called, in
the phalanx of infantry at the bale of Arbela, Arran’s deseription of the battle at the
Granicus (, 14) seems to be erroneous in some of the words of the text; yet it may be
there from it that there were also six taxis in Alexander's phalanx on that occasion also

40 See Arian’s Tactics, 29,

LL CE Diodorus (xvi. 57).


Page 191, Instance 0, Class: Text
4L4 Compare the uselessnss of the Persian scythed chariots at the batle of Cunaxa, See
Xenophon (Anahasis, i. 8). So also at the battle of Magnesia between Scipio and Antiochus
See Livy, xxevi

ALS eppucvta, imitated trom Homer (liad, iv. 282). Ch Vergil (Aeneid, x. 178,
orrentibus hasts; Livy, xiv. 41 (hovrendis hast)

46 Curtus (iv. $8, 59) and Diadorus (xvi, 60) describe quite an Homeric battle, Darius
hurling a spear at Alexander, and Alexander hurling his at Darius and killing his chariotce.
They say thatthe Persians mistook the fll ofthe Charioter for that ofthe king, and fled,
carrying Darius with them.

417 Curtis iv. 59) and Diodorus (avi. 60) say that so thick a cloud of dust was raised
by the mighty mass of fugitives, that nothing could be clearly distinguished, and that thus
the Macedonians lost the track of Darius, The noise of the shouting and the eracking of
whips served as guides tothe pursuers.

“41S Sisygambis, dhe mother of Darius, whom these Persians were especially anxious to
linerate from the custody of the Macedonians, refused to go with them. See Diadorus and
Curtis.

419 Arian doesnot say much about this vigorous charge of Mszaeus, the commander of
the Persian right wing. See Cur iv 0; Diodorus (xvi 60).

420 We leam from Diodorus and Curtis that Parmenio had driven Mazacus back before
Alexander's aval

421 The Lyeus, now called the Great Zab, is tributary of the Tigris. Xenophon calls it
“Zalpatus (Ana. i. 5). The Greck Lyeus isa translation ofthe Syrian Zaba (wal)

422 About sixty-nine miles. CF. Strabo (evi. 1,3)

423 Bawioas, This isan lonic word used by Heradoms (vi. 71, ee), and rarely in Attic
poets and ater prose writers

424 See rian ii. 11 supra

425 Cuts (iv. 63) says that 40,000 of the Persians were slain, and that less than 300
Macedonians were killed. Diodorus (xii. 61) states that more than 90,000 Persians and 500
“Macedonians were sain,

426 September 331 nc. Cf. Plutarch (le, 3),

427 For this prediction, sei, 7 supra,

428 As to the kinsmen and apple-beares, se ii 11 supra,

429 Diodorus (xvi. 63) and Curtis (v. 6) state that from the tweasure captured in
Babylon, Alexander distributed to cach Macedonian horseman about £24, to each of the
Grecian horsemen £20, o cach ofthe Macedonian infantry 8, and to the allied infantry to
months" pay

430 Belus, or Bel, the supreme deity ofthe Babylonians, was identical with the Syrian
Baal. The signification of the name is mighty. Cf. Herodoms (i 181); Diodorus (i. 9;
Sivabo (xvi. 1),

43 See. 17 supra

422 The Chaldees appear in Hebrew under the name of Casdim, who seem to have
‘originally dwelt in Carduchia, the northem part of Assyria. The Assyrians transported these
rude mountaineers to the plans of Babylonia (sa. xxi. 13). The name of Casdim, or
‘Chaldees, was applied to the inhabitants of Mesopotamia (Gen. xi. 28) the inhabitants of
the Arabian desert in the vicinity of Edom (Job i. 17); those who dwelt near the river
Chane eth dead. ody ced be diriene te she fad cet oe ey et


Page 192, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘wore dedicated to Belus. It is preved by inscriptions thet the anclont language was rotsincd
asa leared and religious literature. This is probably what is meant in Daniel i 4 by “the
hook and tongue of the Casdim” Cf. Diodorus (i. 29-31); Ptolemy (v.20, 3), and Cicero
(De Divination, i. 1), See First's Hebrew Levon, sub voce 7.

433 In the Bible this city is called Shushan, Near it was the fortress of Shushan, called in
‘our Bible she Palace (Neh. i. 2; Esth i 8). Susa was situated on the Choaspes, a river
remarkable forthe excellence of is wate, a fact refered to by Tibulus (iv. 1, 140) and by
Milton (Parudise Reg. it. 288). The name Shushan is derived from the Persian word for
lly, which grew abundantly in the vicinity. The uns ofthe palace mentioned in Ester i
have recently been explored, and were found to consist of an immense hall, the roof of
which was supported by a central group of thirty-six pillars arranged inthe form ofa square.
This was flanked by three poticoes, each containing two rows of sx pillars. CE. Smabo (xv
7,28),

£24 The name ofthe viceroy was Abulites (Cuts, v8),

435 If these were Atic talents, the amount would be equivalent to £11,600,000; but if
they were Babylonian or Aeginctan talents, they were equal to £19,000,000. Cf. Plutarch
(Alex, 36, 37); Justin (x. M4); and Curtus(v. 8). Diodorus (xvii. 6) tells us that 40,000
talents were of uncoined gold and silver, and 9,000 talents of gold bearing the efigy of
Darius

486 CE Arvian (vi, 19); Pawsanias (i. 8, 8); Pliny (Nat. Hist, xxxiv. 9); Valerius
Maximus i, 10,1). For Harmodius and Arstogeton soe Thucydides, vi. 56-58

437 Polis meant in early times a particular part of Athens, viz the citadel, usualy called
‘he Acropolis. CF Aristophanes (Lysistrata, 245 et passin).

4438 Demeter and Persephone

439 About £730,000.

£40 Antipater had been left by Alexander regent of Macedonia. Agis IL king of Sparta,
refused to acknowledge Alexander's hegemony, and aftr a hard stuggle was defeated and
slain by Antipatr at Megaloplis, 2. 330, See Diodorus, xvi. 63; Cuts, vi. Land

441 According to Curtis (v. 6) these forces amounted to nearly 15,000 men. Amyntas
also brought with him fifty sons ofthe chief men in Macedonia, who wished to serve as
royal pages. Cf. Diodorus xvii. 64

422 A river flowing through Susiana, formed by the junction of the Eulacus and
‘Coprates.

BSCE Sabo, xv. 3

444 wizovestoiyevor, with dative, defrauded of. CE Demosthenes, 1035, 26.

485 yépa. An Homeric expression.

446 Named Sisygambis (Curtin, v1)

449 This was the Axes. ee Strabo, xv. 3

4448 Notice the use ofthe adverb pv with the genitive, instead ofthe preposition xp.
(Cf Pindar (Pythian iv 76) mp pas.

4449 Curtis (. 16) says that Ariobarcanes ater a bloody contest got away through the
“Macedonian lines, with about 40 horsemen and 5,000 foot, and made for Persepolis. Being
shut out of that fortress, he was overtaken and slain with all his companions. CE. Diodorus
(si. 68),

450 Diodorus (xvii. 69) and Justin (xi, 14) state that on approaching Persepolis,
Alexander met $00 Grecian captives, mutilated by loss of arms, less, eyes, eas, or other
members. Curtis (v. 17-19) says there were 4,000 of them, Alexander offered to Sond these
men home, with means of future support but they prefered to remain in Persis. The king
gave them money, clothing atl, and land


Page 193, Instance 0, Class: Text
captured at Persepolis was 120,000 talents, or £27,600,000. In his own letter Alexander
stated tht there was sufficient treasure and valuable property to load 10,000 mule cats and
5,000 camels (Plutarch, lex, 37). Curtus tells us that 6,000 talents were captured at
Pasargadac.

452 Pasargadae was the old capital of Persia, Founded by Cyrus; but is place was
afterwards taken by Persepolis.

453 Diodorus (xvii. 70, 71) and Curius (¥. 20, 22) say that Alexander delivered
Persepolis to his soldiers to pillage, and that he ordered a general massacre of the
inhabitants. These authors agree with Plutarch (Ale. 38) in asserting that in a drunken revel
he was instigated by the courtesan Thais to set fie to the palace, and accompanied her to
‘commence the act of destruction. See Den fous ode. But Arran’ account establishes
the fact thatthe fire was the result of a deliberate plan. As regards the massacre, Plaroh
(67) expressly states that Alexander wrote home that he ordered it from motives of policy

4S! This was the principal passthrough the Elburz mountains from Media into Hyreania
and Parthia,

4455 This was the eapital of Media, called in Chaldee Achmetha (Ezra vi. 2). The present
city of Hamadan is on the same ste It is situated atthe foot of Mount Orontes, and was
used by the Persian and Parthian kings as their summer residence. It was surrounded by
seven walls, each overtopping the one before it fom the outer to the inner, crowned with
batements of different colours. Its citadel was used asa royal treasury. Helow i stood a
splendid palace, with silver tiles, and adorned with wainscotings, capitals, and entablatures
‘of gold and silver. These treasures, othe valu of 4,000 talents, were coined into money by
Antiochus the Great of Syria. See Herodons, i 98; Polybius, 77

486 This tribe lived inthe mountains between Media and Persia

457 £1 700,000.

458 Cutius (v.23) says that 6,000 Grecian mercenaries under Pato the Athenian met
Alexander in Media, having marched up from Cilicia

459 Diodorus (xvi. 80) says thatthe amount of treasure deposited at Exbatana was
180,000 talents or £41, 400,000,

460 large city inthe extreme north of Media, mentioned in the Book of Tobit. It was
famous in the Middle Ages under the name of Rai The ruins of Rai lie south-east of
Teheran,

461 ae generally means wnt In its present use efi 1 supa, Eate wev pos

462 The Drangians lived in apart of Ariana west of Arachosia,

463 Justin (xi 15) and Curtus (34) state that Darius was bound in chains of gold. The
former Says thatthe name ofthe place was Thara in Parthia, where the king was arrested,
Probably these chains were those wom by the king or his nobles, according tothe Persian
custom, This is the only sentence in Arran where ep suffers anastrophe, coming after the

464 Plutarch (Alex, 42) says that Alexander rode 3,300 stades, or about 400 miles, in
leven days. In the next chapter he says that only sixty of is men were able to keep up with
him inthe pursuit

465 Curius (. 24-38) gives very ample details of what occurred during the las days of
Darius. CE Diodorus (evi 73); Justin (3 18).

466 The Persian kings were buried at Persepolis. See Diodorus, xvi 71. Plutarch (lex,
43) says that Alexander seat the corpse of Darius to his mothe.

467 Inthe year n.c. 330, the first of Hecatombaion fll onthe first of July

4468 Darius came tothe throne 1. 336.


Page 194, Instance 0, Class: Text
These men formed the body-guard of the usurper Athaliah, who stood in need of forcign
mercenaries. David had a body-guard of Philistines and Cretans. The Carins served as
mercenaries thoughout the ancient world, as we learn from Thucydides, . §; Hevodous,
TTI; 152; w 111; Sabo, xiv. 2. The Lydians appear inthe Bible under the name of Lad
(Usa. bi. 19). Heradonus (i. 94) gives an account of the colonization of Umbria by the
Lydians,feom which sprung the state ofthe Eruscans. Hence Vergil (Aeneid, i. 782) speaks
fof the “Lylus Tris” See also Aeneid, vi, 479; Horace (Satire, i 6, 1); Tacitus (Annals,
iv. $8}; Dionysius (4rehacologia Romana, i 28).

410 He marted Barsne, eldest daughter of Darius (Avram, vi. 4 infra) She was also
‘alld Arsinoe and States,

D1 According to Curtis (vi. 6-10) the soldiers were very desirous of returning home;
but Alexander made an harangue and induced them to advance into Hyrcania.

£22 The modern Bah.

428 The Caspian

£24 Diodorus (xvi. 75) calls this river Stboetis; Cuts (vi. 10) calls it Ziobets.

405 Kriger has éveaia instead of toi.

£26 Curtius (v.14) says Artabazus had nine sons, one of whom, Phamabazus, was the
admin ofthe Persian fleet. See trian i yi 2 2 supe),

TD CE Curtis, vi. 16,

448 Sinope was a prosperous colony of Miletus onthe Euxine. tis stil called Sinoub, It
was the bitplace of Diogenes.

4429 Chalcedon was a colony of Megara, situated on the Proponts at the entrance ofthe
Bosporus, nearly opposite Byzantium,

480 Areia occupied what is now the cast part of Khorasan, and the west and north-west,
‘of Afghanistan. Susia is the modern Tus

481 Compare the words of Tssaphemes to Clearchus (Xenophon, Anabasis, ii 5):
“Though the king isthe only man who can Wear the tiara eect upon his head, Ishallbe able
to wear mine erect upon my heart in fll confidence, when you are in my service.” Cf,
Gurus (i. 8); Anstophanes (Birds, 487) The cap of the ordinary Persians was low, loose,
and clinging about the head in fold; whereas that ofthe king was high and erect above the
head, From Xenophon (Cyropaedia, vi. 3,13) we lear that the Persian king's ves was of
a purple colour, half mixed with white, and that no one else was allowed to wear this
minture of white, He had loose trousers ofa scarlet colour, and a rabe entirely purple. Cf.
also Strabo (xs. 3), where the tiara is said to be in the shape ofa tower, and Seneca (De
Beneficis, vi 31); Ammianus, vii. 8, 5.

482 See Xenophon (nab. i 2,27; Cyropaedia, vi. 3); Cuts (i 8).

483 These people ae also called Drangians, They lived west of Arachosia in Drangiona,

484 According to Plutarch (Alex, 48, 49) Alexander suborned Antigoné, the mistress of
Philtas, to revel his secret conversation

485 CL, Curtis, vi. 32

486 The word émpnvoris is found nowhere else in any Greek author

487 Ful details of the conspiracy and tal of Philos are given by Curtus (vi. 25-44),

488 Arvian says nothing about Philotas being put tothe torture; but this fact is asserted
With ample details by Plutarch (Alex, 49); Diodorus (xvi, 80); Curnus (vi. 42, 43); and
Justin (xi 5).

489 Fall particulars of the murder of Parmenio are given by Curtis (vi. 7-9)

490 For the trial of Amvates. cf Curtius. vii. 2-6.


Page 195, Instance 0, Class: Text
SYMIPSRUSETS WEY 1 SETICTHO, BNE NMS CONOR SMCTWATES EICANY CiSHinguished Msc See
Diodorus, xvii. 80; Curius, vi 10; Justin, xii 5

492 The Ariaspians inhabited the south part of Drangiana on the borders of Gadrosia.
The river Etymander, now known as the Hilmend, flowed through their territories. CE
Gurus, i. U1 Diodorus, vit. 81

498 Gatrosia was the furthest province of the Persian empire on the south-east, It
‘comprised the south-ast part of Beloochistan.

494 This was not the range usually so called, but what was known as the Indian
‘Caucasus, the proper name being Paropanisus. It is now called Hndu-Koosh

495 This city was probably on the site of Beghram, twenty-five miles north-east of
Cabal, See Grte's Greece, vo. wit ch 94

496 There are two kinds of slphium or lasrpitium, the Cyrensic, and the Persian. The
lane is usualy called asafitida. See Herodotus (iv. 169); Pliny (Historia Nanwalis xix. 15;
sali 48); Acian (Varia Historia, xi. 37; Aristophanes (Plus, 925); Plautus (Rud. i. 2,
16); Canulus (i. laserpiiteris Cen)

497 Cyrene was a colony founded by Batts from Thera, an island colonized by the
Spartans. The teitory of Cyrenaica is now a part of Tripoli. CE. Pindar Pyth, iv. 487);
Herodoms (iv. 159-208),

498 This Tanais was usually called Jaxates, now Sir, lowing into the sea of Aral

499 The Oxus, now called Iiboun or Amou, flows into the sea of Aral, but formerly
flowed into the Caspian,

S00 Some thnk this town stood where Naksheh now is, and others think it was at Kesch,

SOLE Xenophon, nab. i$, 10.

502 Cutis (vi. 24 follows the account of Arstobulus, and so does Diodorus (xi. 83)
inthe main. CE Acian (Varia Historia, xi. 37),

503 The modern Samarcand

508 Aman and Strabo are wrong in stating that the Joxartes rises inthe Caucasus, or
Hindu-Koosh It springs from the Comedae Montes, now called Moussour. It dacs not flow
ito the Hyrcanian, or Caspian Sea, but into the Sea of Aral Ii about 900 miles long.

505 The river Tanais, of which Herodotus speaks (i. 45, $7), is dhe Don; and the Lake
Macotis is the Sea of Azov. CE. Siabo (vit. ce. 3 and 4),

506 Eureinos (kind to strangers); called before the Grecks setled upon it Axenos
(inhospitable), See Ovid (Trisna, iv. 4). CE Ammianus (xxi. 8, 33): “A contario per
‘ewillationem Pontus Euxinus adpellaur, et evethen Grucci dicimus stutum, et noctem
cuphronen et furias Eumenidas.”

‘502 So Curtius (vi, 6) makes the Don the boundary of Europe and Asia. “Tanai
Europam et Asiam medius interfuit Ammianus says: “Tana inter Caucasias riens rapes,
Per sinuosos lbitur circumflexus, Asiamgue dsterminans ab Europa, in stagnis Macotcis
delitesci.” The Rha, of Volga, is fist mentioned by Ptolemy in the second century of the
(Christan era

‘508 Gadeiais now called Cadiz. The Grecks called the continent of Africa by the name
‘of Libya. So Polyhius (ii. 37) says that the Don isthe boundary of Europe, and that Libya is
Separated from Asia and Europe respectively by the Nile andthe Stats of Gibraltar, or, as
he calls the later, “the mouth atthe pillars of Hercules.” Arran here, like many ancient
authors, considers Libya apart of Asia. Cf. Juvenal, i

509 Curtis (i. 23) gives an account of the massacre by Alexander of the descendants
‘of the Branchidae, who had surendered to Xerees the treasures of the temple of Apollo near
Miletus, and who, to escape the vengeance of the Grecks, had accompanied Xerxes into the
interior. They had been settled in Sogdiana, and their descendants had preserved themselves


Page 196, Instance 0, Class: Text
ee eet en
lable of contents ofthe 17th book of Diodorus, that that historian also gave an account of
this atrocity of Alexander in the part of his history, now lost, which came after the S3rd
chapter. CE Hevadoms (i. 92, 187; v.36} Strabo (xi I; xi. 1).

[SIO See Homer's iad, xi 6. CE Curtius, vil 26; Amines, xii. 6

SLLCE Thesis, i. 97

‘512 Cuts (vi. 26) says, he sent one of hs friends named Berdes on this mission

‘513 This was called Alexandria Uima, on the Jaxarts, probably the modems Khojend

‘SLE CE. Curnus (vil 26), Zariaspa was another name for Bactra. See Pliny (vi. 18) and
Sivabo (x. 1).

S13 This city was also called Cyreschata, because it was the furhest city founded by
‘Cyrus, and the extreme city of the Persian empire

516 vei was not used in Attic Greek, or but seldom. It became common after the time
of Alexander.

517 Instead of pa wd, Sintens reads fuépa pie

SIS This city was called by the Grecks, Alexandria on the Tanais. See Cutius, vil 8,

519 CE. Livy, xxi 27:—Hispani sine ulla mole in utes vestments conjectis psi cacti
superpositis incubanes lumen tanavere

520 See Herodos, iv. 122-142.

521 This was Maracanda, according to ii, 30 supra. There isan ero in the text; Abicht
Proposes to read ni 1 dp, instead of és i fasina.

522 This river is now called Sogd, or Kobik. The Greek name signifies "very precious,”
a translation ofthe native name. Cf. Strabo, p. 518.

523 Curtis (ii, 32) says that Spitamenes Ind an ambush forthe Macedonians, and
slew 300 cavalry and 2,000 infantry

524 About 170 miles.

525 Curtius (vi. 40) says that Alexander founded six cities in Bectria and Sogdiana
Justin (xi. 8) says thete were twelve

56 This isa mistake; for it ends ina lake Dengiz neat Karakoul

522 The Arcius is now called Heri-rud, The Etymander isthe modern Hilmend. Nothing
is known ofthe Epardus,

528 The Pencius is now called Selambria t forces its way dough the vale of Tempe,
between mounts Olympus and Ossa into the sea. CE Ovid (Met, i. 568-576).

529 On the analogy of mpiv the later prose-writers use Ene with the infinitive. CE
Arran, 1,3: 16,

530 See Bk ich. 29 supra

531 See Bk ich. 19 supra

532 Se Bk ich. 16 supra

523 Curtis (vi. 40) says thatthe reinforcement was 19,000 men.

SLE CL Plutarch (lee, 43); Diodorus (vi. 83),

535 Le. non Hellenic.

‘536 CE. Diodorus, xvi, 77; Justin, xi. 3. We lear from Plutarch (dle, 48), that he did
not assume the tiara ofthe Persian kings. Cf. Avrian, vit 9 vi 29 infra. The Medic robe
was along silken garment reaching t the fect, and fling round the body in many deep
“


Page 197, Instance 0, Class: Text
(oot Maranus, @ Gescencant OF TCMEAUS, King (OF ATBOS, 15 said’ to Have setice in
“Macedonia, and to have become the founder af the dynasty of Macedonian kings. Temenus
was a descendant of Heracles. Cf. ii. 5:18. 10. One ofthe chief causes of disgust which the
Greeks flt at the conduct of Pausanias, the conqueror at Plataca, was, that he adopted the
Persian ate. “This pedigree from Temenus and Hercules may be suspicious; yet it was
allowed, after a strict inquiry by the judges ofthe Olympic games (Herodotus, v.22), a a
time when the Macedonian kings were obscure and unpopular in Greece. When the Achacan
league declared against Philip, it was thought decent thatthe deputies of Argos should retire
(F Liv, xxx 22)" Gibbon. CE Herodotus, vi. 137; Thucydides, i 99,100, v.80.

S38 CL Curtis, vi 6

530 The sons of Jove, Castor and Pollux. éippuoévra is a word borrowed from Homer
and Herodotus

540 CE. Curtis, vill 17: "Non deerat alia concupiscenti pemiciosa adult perpetuum
‘alum regum, quorum opes saepiusassenatio quam hosts ever”

‘S41 Curtus (vi, 3 and 4) says that it was Alexander himself that spoke depreciatingly
‘of Philip, and that Clits even dared to defend the murdered Parmenio

542 Instead ofthe usual reading from ai eainy to wal taimy, Sintnis rads of 3é
‘pica maps rw guido sv; Kai eann aaioave iv Kiscioy dixoxceva,

543 CE Curtus (vil 3 and 6), who call the sstr of Clits, Hellanice

44 From Plutarch (Alex, 13) we leam that Alexander imagined he hod incured the
avenging wrth of Bacchus by destroying Thebes, the birthplace ofthat deity, on which
sccount i was supposed tobe under his tutlary care

545 Curtius (ii. 6) says, that in order to console the king, the Macedonian army passed
a vote that Clit had been justly slain, and that his corpse should not be buried. But the
king ordered its burial

546 A philosopher of Abdera, and pupil of Democritus. After Alexander's death,
Anaxarchus was thrown by shipwreck into the hands of Nicocteon, king of Cyprus, 19
‘whom he ad given offence, and who had him pounded to death in a mortar

S47 CE Sophocles (Oedipus Col, 1382; Antigone, 481); Hesiod (Opera et Dies, 24
257); Pindar (Olympia, vii, 28); Demosthenes (Advers. Aristogiton, p. 772); Herodotus, i
31

548 Plutarch (Alex, $2) tells us that Callisthenes the philosopher was also summoned
with Anaxarchus to administer consolation, but he adopted stich a different tone that
[Alexander was displeased with him.

549 Cuts (vii. 17) says that Agis was the composer of very poor poems.

580 Justin (xi. 6) says that Callisthenes was a fellow-student with Alexander under
Aristotle. He composed three historical works: I. Hellenica, fom ne. 387 to 337; IL The
History of the Sacred War, from wc. 357 10 346; IL The History of Alexander. CE
Diodorus, xiv. 117. According to Polybus (xi. 23), he was accused by Timaeus of having
flattered Alexandr in his History,

551 Hipparchus was slain a.c. 514, and Hippas was expelled from Athens #.c, $10, See
Thucydides, vi. 53-59

552 Eurystheus was king over Argos and Myeenae alone

583 When Conon the famous Athenian visited Babylon, he would not see Araxerxes,
from repugnance to the ceremony of prostration, which was required from all who
approached the Grest King. We are also informed by Plutarch (driaverses, 22) that
Pelopidas declined to perform this ceremony, so degrading in the eyes of the Greeks. His
colleague, Ismenias, however, dropped his ing infront of the king, and then stooped to pick
it up, thus going through the act of prostration. Cf. Aelian (Varia Historia, i. 21). Xenophon


Page 198, Instance 0, Class: Text
(Aanab., M No)

554 Curtis (vii 18) says thatthe speech proposing to honour Alexander as a god was
made by Cleon, a Sicilian Greek

555 lopévous. The usual reading is wryopévons.

$86 Cf. Xenopon (Chrop., 4 27)-—Réyera tos evrreves gxhodveas éxonéycoda,
av vue Tepes.

557 epdercaveat, Cf, Herndon, 18:—roion Bey i amy npoonéene

558 Alexander's mother Olympias was daughter of Neoptolemus, king of Epirus, who
traced his descent from Neoptolemis, son of Achilles the grindson of Acacus.

559 of Aéyouyiyvovne, Thee is another reading, 62iqor yipwovea,

5600 CE Herodoms, i214, with Dean Blakesley’ note

561, Curtis (vit 20) says, that it was Polysperchon who made sport ofthe Persian, and
incured the king's wrth

562 Ammianus (xvi. 3) says: “lgnorans profecto vetus Aristtclis sapiens dictum, qui
CCalisthenem scctatorem et propinguum suum ad regem Alexandrum mitten, ci sacpe
‘mandabat, ut quam rarssime et jcunde apad hominem loquerctr, vitae potestatem et nevis
im aie linguae poranter.”

568 CE. Curtis (vi, 21); Actian (Varia Historia, xiv. 49). After the bate of Pydna,
Were the Romans conquered the Macedonians, the puer regi followed the defeated king
Perseus tothe sanctuary at Samothrace, and never quited him til he surendered to the
Romans. See Liy, xv. 6

S64 For this use of Bincew, ef. Aristophanes (Knights, 698); Polbius (x. 26, 16)
Suarenotiens aed ts émiouss

S63 Alexandr wrote to Craterus, Atalus, and Alcctas, thatthe pages, though put to the
tomture, asserted that no one but themselves was privy to the conspiracy In another eter,
writen to Antipater the regent of Macedonia, he says that the pages had been stoned to
<dath by the Macedonians bu that he himself would punish the Sophis, and those who sent
him out, and those who harboured in their ities conspirators against him Aristotle had sent
Callisthenes out. Alexander refers to him and the Athenians, See Plutarch (Alex, 58).

566 Cf, Arvin (i. 29)

S67 Curtus (vi. 29) says that Alexander afterwards repented of his guilt in murdering
the philosopher. His tragical death excited great indignation among the ancient
Philosophers. See Seneca (Nauwales Quaestiones, vi. 23); Cicero (Tuse. Disput, i. 10),
speaking of Theophrastus, the friend of Callishenes.

568 We find from chapter xl. that these events occurred at Bact.

‘569 The Chorasmians were a people wi inhabited the country near the lower part of
the river Onus, between the Caspian and Aral Seas.

510 This mythical race of warlike Females is said to have come from the Caucasus and
to have settled near the modem Trebizond, their original abode being in Colehis. CE. Arran
(it 13}; Sabo (ai 8); Dio. (xvii. 77); Curt. (91. 19}; Justin (x 3); Homer (liad, i
189), Aesehlus (Eumenides, 655); Herod (i. 110-116; X27).

511 See ii. 29 supra

572 Propontis means the sea before the Pontus. Compare Ovid (Trista, i 10, 31:
—"Quague tenent Pont! Byzantia litora fauces.”

‘573 We learn, fom Curtus (ii 3), that it was at this place that Clius was murdered,

S14 These were a people dwelling to the nonh-cast ofthe Caspian, who were chiefly
remarkable for having defeated and killed Cyrus the Great. See Herodotus, i. 201-216.


Page 199, Instance 0, Class: Text
the son of Crateas. See Arrian, vi. 15, 28, ete. /

511 Curtus (vi. 1) says thatthe name ofthe defeated general was Atinas.

577 Amtabazus was in his 95th year when he joined Alexander withthe Grecian troops of
Darius in nc. 330. See Curtus, vi. 14. His vieeroyalty was destined for Clitus; but on the
death ofthat general twas confered on Amyntas. See Curtis, vit. 3

S78 Curtius (ii. 11 and 12) says that the wife of Spitamencs murdered him and carried
his head to Alexander

510 The Hebrew name for Media is Madai, which means middle-land. The Greeks
called the country Media, according to Polybius (¥ 44), because it lies near the mide of
Asia

S80 Of the year 327 mc

581 Gp akin to Latin ewra, a poetical and lonic word, often found in Herodotus

582 About £2,700,

583 About £327. Cutius (vi. 41) says thatthe frst prize was 10 talents, the second 9
talents, and the same proportion forthe eight otbers, so thatthe tenth man who mounted
received one talent. The sater of Darius, usually called a daricus, was a gold coin of Persia,
See Smith's Dictionary of Antiquities.

SRE CL. Curtis (vi. 43), voa,signum captives

585 Roxang and her son Alexander Agus were pu to death by Cassander, .¢. 311

580 Sativa, She died shorly before the batle of Abela,

SAD euperps rod. Cf. Theveritus, xv. 94, ua wap,

588 Aer the capture of Damascus, Alexander married Barsne, the widow of his rival
Memon, and daughter of Artbarus. She was distinguished for her beauty and
accomplishments, having received a Grecian education, By her he had a son named
Heracles. See Plutarch (lex, 21). She and her son were put o death by Polysperchon, nc
309,

‘589 Cl. Herodotus, i 131; Cutus iv 42. The Persians called this god Ormuza

590 Curtis (vii 16) says that Alexander saw Roxana ata banquet given by Oxyartes in
his honour.

591 Krier substituted xepiipy for nepuépye

592 fara. Cf Xenophon (Ana, iv 6, 17)

593 Arian imitates Herodotus inthe use of wit the infinitive instead of ote.

504 This term is Persian word meaning mountaincers. The tribe mentioned here lived
between the rivers Oxus and Jasartes, on the borders of Bctria and Sogdiana

595 Curtus (vii. 17) says Alexander took with him 30,000 select toops from all the
‘conquered provinces, and thatthe army’ which he led against the Indians numbered 120,000,

596 This is the Indian Caucasus, or mount Parapamiss, now called Hind-Koosh

597 The Cophen is now called Cabul. Nicaea was probably onthe same site as the city
‘of Cabul. Others say its Beghram. The Greek word Sutras denotes a Persian viceroy. I is
2 comuption of a word meaning cour-guardian, in the Behstin Inscriptions written
Kibshatrapa, See Rawlinson’ Herod... 192.

598 Curtius (vii. 43) says that Tales was the title which the king of this district
received. His name was Omphis.

509 A district between the rivers Indus and Attock. Its capital, Peucela, isthe modern
re


Page 200, Instance 0, Class: Text
Arriqn, vil, 14 infra.

(601 These were ties living in the north-west ofthe Punjab,

(602 Probably the modem Kama, a tributary ofthe Cabul

{608 Supposed to be another name forthe Coes.

(604 wai os yo, The usual reading is rs pions 1,000 Agrianians

608 A tibutary of the Cophen, probably what i now called the Lundye, runing parallel
with the Kama

4606 Ch Liy, xxi, 31-—"Amnis stxa glarosa volvens, nil stable nee tutum
ingredient pracbet”

GO? This was the capital of the Assacenians. Curtus (ii, 37) calls it Mazagae, and
describes its strong position,

(608 See Bk ii. 23 supra

(609 Curtis (vii. 37,38) says tht the name of the queen was Cleophis, and that after
the surender she giined Alexander's favour, He also informs us tht the king did just
before Alexanders arrival

{610 Probably Bajour, north-west of Peshawur. The position of Oa cannot be fixed.

{611 This was the king ofthe Indian mountaineers. See Arian, vinta

{612 On the ground of Ev x abe Eoupuyévres not being classical Greck, Krier has
substituted év rf xdter Eounogevyéres, and Sintenis is riy abt Eyuovyevtes. No one
however ought to expect Arian to be fe from eror, writing, ashe did, in the middle ofthe
second century ofthe Christian er

613 This seems to be the Greck translation of the naive name, meaning the place to
Which no bird can rise on account of its height. Cf Saho, av. 1. This mountain was
identified by Major Abbot, in 1854, as Mount Mahabuna, nea the right bank of the Indus,
shout 60 miles above is confluence with the Cabul

614 Ch Arran, i 16 supra

‘615 Curtus (vi. 39) says thatthe river Indus washed the base ofthe rock, and that its
shape resembled the meta oF goa in a race-course, which was a stone shaped like a sugar
loaf, Amian’s description is more likely t0 be cortect as he tok it from Ptolemy, one of
Alexander's generals

(616 Near mount Makabunn are two places called Umb and Balimah, the one in the
valley ofthe river andthe other of the mountain above i. See Major Abbot's Gradus ad
doron:

{617 Bay a poetical word. Cf. Homer (Odyssey, vi, 159,

‘618 Probably Dyrta was atthe point where the Indus issues from the Hindu-Koosh

619 Gronovis fis introduced xi before rig wis

620 The name Indus is derived from the Sansrit appellation Sindh, from a root
Sandi, meaning to low. The name Indians, o Sindians, was originally applied only tothe
‘dwellers onthe banks ofthis river. Hindustan isa Persian word meshing the country of the
Hindus or Sindus. Compare the modem Sinde, inthe north-west of India, which coatains
the lover couse ofthe Indus. In Hebrew India was called Hodu, which isa contraction of
Hondu, another form of Hindu, See Esther i. 1; vi, 9. Kriger changed «onoisico into
‘oro,

{£21 This city was probably on the site of Jelalabad


Page 201, Instance 0, Class: Text
This deity corresponds to the Greek Dionysus or Bacchus.

624 The slopes of this mountain were covered vith vines. See Ovid (Fst i. 313;
Metamorphoses 86; Vg Geog 98), Ping.

{25 gavin, Aan des not comply withthe Ati rule a the subjunctive shoul
flow te ipl essa the eadingeteoe CF 66 3,50 8 182

{GCE Phin ar Mis, i 23 vi 62), Th tna eating an neve
sal bm For hs Kags has proposed ia va nomen

62 The ofernames of Diy were: Bach, Brom, is, acs, Lene,
tyoens The Roman called hi Liber

{2§ Cus (i. 36) ys atthe Masdonians cele Bachan forthe pce of
ten hon tht outa

{29 The star pass fund oly in ian an Patch, Cf it 2,2 ina,

{60 The ecebated Geographer and Mathematician, who was born ne. 276 an ded
sbout hoe Hs pnp werk was onan Seopa: which ea rae Se
Noncat his wars we ext He sade psi te Alvan ie he. 286.

{2 CF. Arian dig v1),

(2 The east meaton af India which has descended to ur times in Acs
(splices 28

{Aran quent ses the fon and ol Ate wor nds

{4 Abou 880,00,

{8 Aleander probably crossed the Inds near Ack. Te xat sit of Tila anot
ve had

{36 The Hypo sno clle eum, oc ofthe ive great buries th tds

£37 Heros conse the Dane te largest rn the worl a own fim,
andthe Dice th get of al ves excep the Dae athe Mie. Se Hea
ies
ruin mare Quorum rma Peer iss et nr st ws
‘Gino semone Scand Narciso, ttm Carseat acoso: am
Borontoms acini Steno Tonge minor sun cose spimum ges ct
pol spece nigrum "Amman (x 844) Ply 28 sa tt the Dane has
umn te mae of whieh he gen

{9 The Ind doce notre inthe Parpamins, bu inthe Himalayas. has two
principal mouths ba the are umber fsa on Prem sa thre wee seen
Te Dela nbtncen Tan! 80 mies “Det argue tern ho eel
Sms ela’ miome a

‘40-The terior ised hy tetas ans four afc is now called Paya, a
Penian wor meaning ve ers

‘A Ctesis was the Greek physician of Antaxenes Mnemon. He wt a sry of
Persia and a book on Ini, Ils works a ely prseved in meage ssdgemeal by
Prot, Art tyne was fate and untusworty HS of maw 37; De
Geneavne nial 3) Subsequent esc tas proved less Be on ed
Meret gnry ght nhc many Semen in whch hey att varance,

{42 Te fc, tht the nds nowhere mor thn 20 tas, oF 212 mies road

645 See Sra x, x 4: Heo i102, with ean Blakesley no

doe obbunsape athe lene tones ta ontinaom


Page 202, Instance 0, Class: Text
(black). In ancient Egyptian inscriptions it is called Keesh. It is the country now called
‘Sys Acthinas en sider poets esses Ean bb tap
‘ib, non et in 80

"GC. Xenophon (Copii 5,67)

{42 Called he dia val ie wok nthe oie it sions

{48 Nearchus et an acount is voyage, whch snot nw extant Arian made se of
of Syria and one ot Alexander's pecs av asso Sac hing fhe count
nea ie Ganges He wtea vet tbl cco ni our ons.

{630 Tara iso the oll oo tor mang high aber fom of wich is dr. Hence
Dotan “hate

{651 The ancien geographers tought hat he Jaxares ifr, prt fit ming he
tans Dom nfs th ae Marto Sexo Avs and th te pt ing
in the Hyrcanian ef Cspen Se, The Ines sd Oss Dw nt th ea oa ut the
tncems hugh ha hey elim the Capi steed eine to pove tha
thy onc i Hyena th Grek oe oc old Persian Fk, at Was La
‘Sow eed Gurgin

652 Herons 20) sates devi that th Caspian san nan se, Sab 1)
flowing Etostenes syst tse gute ten vce

{658 The Euphrates, afer its anton wih the Tues ows trough the mans ot
anf hee cur meses hn ame nr

{4 Ch Avian, vi 27a

{58 Probably the Chanrgupa af the Sasert ries He conquered fom the
Macednians he Puna and ie coantty asa asthe Hind Kooh, He eiged abou 310

66 Mount Dinymis, now cls Mure Dag, was sare Cb te moter the
sods, wo was ones called Dindymee

{57 Hees of Mies di about nc 476. He wrote a work pon Geography ad
snot en Hist Hier wee we iw Herds bt ny agente,

659 See Herdons, i 0238

G60 See Homer's Oise, 47,58, fa Hebrew the mame for Ey i isin
(are) in fm the word levity reat the vison oth oat by
the Ni The mtve mane was Chom meaning ck, oat onaseun of the Baca
heat so

(1 ovis Abi ating instead of OOK.

(3 See Herons, vit 383683, 97, 88441, aspoas~ Of The same wes
applied tothe Stats of Constantinople, and also se of Yea he former bing
Shes ie Tran nthe iar he CiamaianBospers CT Asche (Prom, 73) Aa
Somors diol bus mesh ast: ude ncn ambos Pn 1)

‘4 Diodorus ei 86) ys that Alexander erosed on a bride of oats, CF Sab, p.

{65 There was another ve called Rhema, tributary ofthe Po, now call he Reno


Page 203, Instance 0, Class: Text
Herodoms, vii. 84; Diodorus, xi 18; Aristophanes, Wasps, 399. wait fodv is Kriger’s
reading for the usual kart népox.

(662 The explanation ofthis passage given in Liddell and Scot's Lexicon, sub voce
‘eas, is evidently incorrect as there is nothing about a chariot in the original

‘668 Compare the description of Cxsars bridge over the Rhine (Gallic War, iv. 17).

669 The place where Alexander crossed the Indus was probably at its junction withthe
‘Cophen or Cabal river, near Attock. Before he crossed he gave his army a rest of thirty days,
as we learn from Diodorus, xvi, $6. From the same passage we lear that a certain king
named Aphrices with an anny of 20,000 men and 15 elephants, was killed by his own men
and his army joined Alexander.

{670 The kingdom of Porus lay between the Hydaspes and Acesines, the district now
called Barisdoab with Lahore as capital, I was conquered by Lords Handinge and Gough in
1449,

(621 Diodorus (xvi 87) says that Porus had more than 50,000 infantry, sbout 3,000
‘cavalry, more than 1,000 chariots, and 130 elephants. Curtus (vi. 4) says he had about
30,000 infanty, 300 chariots, and 85 elephants.

(672 éxapéyas is Keiger's reading instead of ens,

{673 About the month of May. See chap. 1 inte; also Curtius, vii. 48,46. Strabo (xv. 1)
‘quotes from Aristobulus deseribing the rainy season atthe time of Alexander’ battle with
Pus atthe Hydaspes.

(G2CL Arran, i. 14 supra

625 aia nev is Kriger's reading, instead of 2 axsvov.

(626 thesis Abicht’s reading for ei

SEZ About 17 miles.

‘618 This use of piv with infinitive afer negative clauses, is contrary to Attic usage

(629 The por. pass. ézmua i used by Arran and Dionysius but by Homer and the
Ati writers the form used is nama. Dori, séxaya,

680 Seleueus Nicator, the most powerful of Alexander's successors, became king of
Syria and founder of the dynasty of the Scleucdae, which came toan end in nc. 79,

(681 For this use of Bcov, ef. Homer (lad, ix. 384); Herodotus, iv. 48; Plato (Gorgias,
485 A; Euhydemus, 273.8),

{682 Compare the passage of the Rhone by Hannibal. (See Ly, xxi. 26-28; Poly bis,
45,46)

{683 100 Greek and 101 English fect.

(688 See Donaldson's New Cratylus, se. 178

(685 apiv watiwow. In Attic, spi dv i the regular form withthe subjunctive; ut in
Homer and the Tragic writers vis often omitted.

(686 CF Arian’s Tactics, chap. 29

(682 Diodorus (xvi, 89) says that more than 12,000 Indians were killed in this bat,
‘over 9,000 being captured, besides 80 elephants.

‘688 According to Diodorus there fell ofthe Macedonians 280 cavalry and more than 700
infantry. Plutarch (Alex. 60) says thatthe battle lasted eight hours

{689 Curtus (ii $0, $1) represents Porus sinking half dead, and being protected to the
last by his fitful elephant. Diodorus (xvi 88) agrees with him

600 CE. Curtius, vii. 44; Justin, xi, 8.


Page 204, Instance 0, Class: Text
34, explains this by terarcwaqievos gop.

692 CE Plutarch (Ale, 60}; Cuts, vil

(693 Diodorus (xvi, $7) says that the battle was fought inthe archonship of Chremes at
Athens.

{604 Nicaea is supposed to be Mong and Bucephala may be Jelalpur. See Sirabo, xv.

{695 Cl, Plutarch (Alex, 61. Schmid says that Alexander ould not have broken inthe
horse before he was sixtcn years old, But since at ths time he was in his twenty-ninth year
he would have had him thirteen years. Consequently the horse must have been at least
Seventeen years old when he acquired him. Can any one believe this? Yet Plutarch also
states that the horse was tity years old at is death

696 Curtus (vi. 17) says this occurred in the land of the Mardians; whereas Plutarch
(le, 44) says it happened in Hyrcania,

{691 Diodorus (xvi. 89, says Alexander made a halt of 30 days ater this battle

{698 Cl. Arvin, v. 8 supra, where an earlier embassy from Abisares is mentioned

(69 Strabo (xv. 1) says that tis Porus was a cousin of the Porus captured by Alexander.

+00 This isthe Chenab. See Arian (Indica, ii.) who says that where it joins dhe Indus it
is 30 stades broad,

101 Diodorus (xvi, 98) says that Alexander received a reinforcement om Greece at
this river of more than 30,000 infantry and nearly 6,000 cavalry; also suits of armour for
25,000 infanty, and 100 talents of medical drugs.

102 Mé2ew is usually connected withthe future infinitive; but Artin frequently uses it
with the present

103 Now called the Ravi

104 Sangala is supposed to be Lahore; but probably it lay some distance from that city,
‘on the bank ofthe Chenab.

205 Compare Casa (Bell. Gal i. 26: pro vallocaros objeerant et ¢ loco superiors in
nosis venientes tela conjiciebant et nonnull inter cars rotasque mataras ac tragulas
sulbjicichant nostrosgue vulnerabant

106 épeupeiv is an epic and lonic word rarely used in Attic; bt found frequently in
Herodows, Homer, Hesiod, and Pindar

102 The Greeks had only three watches; but Arian is speaking as « Roman.

108 Eumenes, of Cardia in Thrace, was private scerctary to Philip and Alexander. Afr
the death of the latter, he obtained the rule of Cappadocia, Paphlagonia, and Pontus. He
lisplayed great ability both as a general and statesman; but was put to death by Antigonus in
1c. 316, when le was 45 years of age. Being a Greck, he was disliked by the Macedonian
generals, from whom he experienced very unjust treatment. It is evident fom the
biographies of him written by Plutarch and Cornelius Nepos, that he was one of the most
‘eminent men of his er

109 Now called the Beas, or Bias, Strabo calls t Hypanis, and Pliny calls it Hypasis.

‘0 In the Hebrew Bible Javan denotes the Ionian race of Greeks, and then the Greeks
in general (Gen. x2, 4; Isa. Invi. 19; Ezck. xxv. 13; Joe ii. 6; Zech ix. 13). In Dan. vi
21, x. 20, xi. 2, Javan stands for the kingdom of Alexander the Great, comprising
‘Macedonia as well as Greece. The form of the name Javan is losely connected with the
Greek fon, which originally had a digamma, ‘von. Pott says that it means the young, in
‘opposition tothe Graiot, the old. According to Aristotle (Metcorolgica, i. 14) the Hellenes
‘were originally called Graikoi. Cf Sanscrit, jewan; Zend, jawan; Latin, jwvenis; English,


Page 205, Instance 0, Class: Text
ow me
and Antlibanus. Syria between the rivers is usually called by its Greck name of
“Mesopotamia, It is the Padan Aram of the Bible. Cappadocia embraced the whole north-
‘eastem part of the peninsula of Asia Minor. Slaves were procured from this region. See
Horace (Episles, 16, 39); Persus, vi. 77. The name Pamphylia is from mv and gud,
because ofthe mixed origin of the inhabitants.

112 Cf. Aman (Anabass, vi 1; Indica, 43), Herodoms (iv 42) says that Pharaoh Neco
sent a Phoenician expedition fom the Red Sea, which citcumnavigated Africa and returmed
by the Straits of Gibraltar, or the Pillars of Hercules. The Carthaginian Hanno ssa to have
sailed from Cadiz tothe extremity of Arabia. See Pliny (Historia Nawwalis, i. 67; . 1).
“Herodotus (v.43) says thatthe Carthaginians asserted they had sailed round Alice. There
isa Greck translation of Hanno's Perplus sill extant. As to the Pillars of Hercules, see
Actin (Varia Historia, . 3). They are first mentioned by Pindar (Olym. ii. 79: Nem: i
30),

“113 The interior of Africa, ffom the Straits of Gibraltar to Egypt, and fom the
Mediterranean tothe then unexplored South

124 Arian, like many other ancient writers, includes Africa, or Libya, asa pat of Asia
The boundaries were the Eastera Sea and the Adas Mountains. CE. Arran ii. 30; vi. 1 and
30. The name Asia frst occurs in Homer (iad, i, 461, in reference othe marsh abot the
(Cafster, and was thence gradually extended over the whole continent.

13 Heracles, from whom the Macedonian kings claimed to be descended,

116 Hence Hercules is called Tirynthius. (Virgil, Aeneid, vit. 662; vi. 228),

112 See chap. 1 ofthis book.

{LN CE Xenophon (Anab..i. 7,4).

OC Curtis 12.

120 Arian (i. 19) says thatthe Thesalins were seatback from Ecbatana.

2 Pontus Eusinusantea ab inbospital feritateAxenasappellatus (Pliny, v1).

722 The Latin name Carthago and the Greek Carchedon were corruptions of the
Phoenician Carth-Hadeshoth, the “new city”

223 Pliny (vi. 21), says that Alexander erected the altars on the farther bank of the
Hyphass, whereas Arvin, Diodorus, and Plutarch say they were on this side ofthe river.
Gurus (x. 13) does not specify the side of the river

124 Herodoms (iv. 44) says that the Indus is the only river besides the Nile which
produces crocodiles, He docs not soem to have known the Ganges

DBS This was the Nelombium speciosum, the Egyptian bean of Pythagoras, the Lotus of
the Hindus, held sacred by them, It is cultivated and highly valued in China, where iis
‘eaten, The seeds are the shipe and size of acoms.

126 Le. the Mediteerancan

121 See Arvian,v. 6 supra. The native name of Egypt was Chem (black). Compare
Versi (Georgie. iv. 291}:—Viridem Acgyptum nig fecundat arena. Usque colorats amis
devexus a Ini

DS This use of digi withthe dative is instead of the Attic mepi with the genitive or

729 Plutarch (Alex. 6) informs ws that Alexander's army umbered 120,000 infantry
and 15,000 cavalry. Cf Arian Indica, 19).

{130 Aeian, inthe India (chap. 19), says that Alexander embarked with 8,000 men,

31 Strabo (xv. 1) says that the realm of Sopeithes was called Cathaia.


Page 206, Instance 0, Class: Text
means west of it.

RCE Arian, v2 supe

34 Only fragments of this narative are preserved. Siabo (xv. 1) says that the
statements of Onesicrtus are not to be relied upon,

-T3S Curtus (ix. 13) and Diodorus (xvi 98) say that there were 1,000 vessels. Arian
indica, 19) says there were S00. Krigr reads yay inthis passage instead of the common
reading aio

136 From Arian (Indica, 18) we lear that he sacrificed to his country gods, and to
Poseidon, Amphitrite, the Nereids, the Ocean, as well sto te three rivers. CE. 11, supra.

B2CE i 3 supra

NCE Arian Indica, 7).

139 CE. Cwtius (ix. 15); Diodorus (xvii. 97). The later says that Alexander offered
seorilice to the gods for having escaped the greatest danger, and having contested with a
river like Achilles

1240 According to Diodorus (xvii. 96) and Curtius ix. 14) Alexander here made an
‘expedition against the Sibi; defeated an army of 40,000 Indians, and captured the city of
Agallassa

2AL The chet city ofthe Mallians isthe modern Mooltan

242 Mimo In ater waters is offen sed where the Ate writers would use of,

143 Strabo and Cuts cal this river Hyarotis

24 The Brachmans, or Brahmins, were religious caste of Indians. The name was
Sometimes used forthe people whose religion was Brahminism. Cf. Arian (Jadica, 11);
Sivabo, xv. 1; p. 713 ed, Casaubon.

143 Ch Avian 1 sup,

1246 The Romans called these men duplicari, See Lin i. 5%; v.37.

249 wo Exera mudiotien CE Homer (ad, xxi 305; i 119),

148 Curtus (ix. 22) calls the physician Crtobulus. Near the city of Cos stood the
Asclepigum, or temple of Asclepius, © whom the island was sacred, and from whom the
chief family, the Asclepiadae, claimed descent. Curtus says-—Igitur patefacto latus
vulnere, et spiculo evolso, ingens vis sanguinis manare coept,linguique animo rex, et
<aligine oculis offus, veluti morbundus extend,

149 CE Plutarch (Alex. 63); Diadorus (xvi 98, 99); Curtis (ix. 18-23}; Justin (xi. 9)

151) As wo Fame, or Rumour, see Homer (ia, i. 98; Odes. xxiv. 412); Hesiod Works
‘and Days, 758-762}, Neri (Aeneid, iv. 173-190); Ovid (Me. xi, 39-63), Statius (Theb. i
26),

1751 Curtus (x. 18) says it was the town of the Oxyéracian.

152 Nearly 70 mils.

153 Jhmus is from the same root as iévn, to go, and thus means a passage. Pindar
(sthia, v.34) calls itthe “bridge ofthe sea.”

+54 We learn from Cursus (ix. 21) thatthe authors who state that Ptolemy was present
in this battle were Clitarchus and Timagenes. From the history of the former, who was a
‘contemporary of Alexander, Curtus mainly dew the materials for his history of Alexander.

185 Piolemy received this appellation ftom the Rhodians whom he relieved fom the
assaulls of Demetrius. The grateful Rhodians paid him divine honours as their preserve,
and he was henceforward known as Ptolemy Sote. nc. 304, See Pausanias, i. 8,6


Page 207, Instance 0, Class: Text
representation to the king, and that he was backed up by Ptolemy and the rest.

1158 This lin is fragment from one ofthe lost tragedies of Aeschus: pdicave ip 1
vel aude dgetiera.

159 Curtis (ix. 23) says that he was cured of his wound in seven days. Diodorus (x.
99) says that it took many days

260 Artian does not mention the Sut which isthe fh ofthe rivers of the Punjab
Pliny (i. 21) calls it Hesidns; Ptolemy (vi 1) calls it Zaradrus,

1161 About 12 miles Ita se indente Nilo ut triquetram terra figuram eficiat. Ido malt
Graecae lteraevocabulo Delta appellavere Acgyptum (Pliny, v9)

162 This tbe dwelt between the Acesines and the Indus. Diodorus (xvi, 102) calls
‘hem Sambastins; while Cuotius (i. 30) calls them Sabarcians. The Xathrians and
‘Ossadians dvet on the let bank ofthe Indus,

163 We find from Curtis (ix. 31) and Diodorus (xvi, 102) thatthe name ofthis was
Alexandria, I is probably the present Mitun,

‘164 Curtis (jx. 31) calls this satrap Teroltes, and says he was put to death. His
appointment as viceroy is mentioned by Arrian (v.22 supra)

16S This king is called Poricanus by Curtus (ix. 31), Diadorus (xvi. 102), and Sorabo
(ob,

266 An expression imitated from Thucydides (v.34). CE Arian, i 1; v.19; where the
same words are used of Darius and Porus.

162 Diodorus (xvii. 102) says that Sambus escaped beyond the Indus with thirty
elephants,

18 See note, page 327 supra.

1269 The Indica, a valuable work still existing. See chapters x. and xi, ofthat book.

+710 These people inhabited the Delta of the Indus, which is now called Lower Seinde
Ther capital, Patala isthe modern Tata,

‘TIL Ct Arian Indica, i).

112 Curtis (ix. 34) calls this king Moers.

113 Aristobulus, as quoted by Sirabo (xv. 1), said thatthe voyage down the Indus
‘occupied ten months, the fleet ariving at Patala about the time ofthe rising of Situs, or
July, 325 ne

1104 The right atm ofthe Indus is now called the Buggsu, and the left Sata

113 Le caused a heavy swell of waters. CE Apollonius Rhodis, i. 595; Polybius, i. 60,
6. This wind was the southwest monsoon,

116 CE. Curtius (x. 38, 36); Csr (Bell. Gall. v.29) 1 oxiipn tuetoopitoveo. Arian
‘docs not comply with the Attic rule, thatthe pal neuter should take a verb inthe singular
‘Compare i. 20, 8; v.17, 6 and 7;

1223 Plutarch (Ale. 66) says that Alexander called the island Scilustis; but others called
it Psiltucis He also says thatthe voyage down the rivers to the sca took seven months

TIS In regard to this expedition, see Arian, vi 20 inf

229 About 200 miles. Arian here follows the statement of Nearchus.Aristobulus said
‘hat the distance was 1,000 stades. See Strabo, x. 1

180 See Curtis, ix. 38. This lake has disappeared.

‘ZBL These periodical winds are the southerly monsoon of the Indian Ocean. Cf Arrian


Page 208, Instance 0, Class: Text
(ZS This occurs at the beginning of November. The Romans called the Plewdes:
Vergiliae. CE. Pliny (i 47, 128): Vergiliarum oceasus hiemem inchoat, quod tempus in IL
[dus Novembres incidere consuevit. Also Livy (xx. 35,6): Nivs etiam caus, occidente jam
sidere Vergiiarum, ingentem terrorem adjecit.

283 This river, which is now calle the Pually;is about 120 miles west ofthe mouth of
the indus. It is called Arabis by Avian (Indica, 21) and Abis by Strabo (sv. 2).

TSE These were a people of Gadrosa, inhabiting a coast district nearly 200 miles long in
the present Beloochistan. CE. Arsian Undica, 22 and 25); Pliny, vi. 23

‘288 The Arbitians det between the Indus and the Arabius; the Oritians were west of
the ater river

28 Rhambacia was probably ator near Haur

182 According to Diodorus (xvi. 108) the city was called Alexandria,

188 Ora was the name of the district inhabited by the Oritans.

289 CL Pliny (Nat Hist xi. 33-38),

290 CL, Sabo (xv 2); Pliny (Nat His xi. 26).

791 Probably the snow-flake.

292 This is the well-known catechu, obtained chiefly ffom the Acacia Catechu, The
liguid gum is called kuth or eutch in India.

103 These people were called Ichibyophagi, or Fish-cters. They are described by Arian
(indica, 29, Curtis, ix. 40; Diodorus, wi. 10S; Pliny (Vat. Hist vi. 25, 26), Plutarch
(Ulex. 66); Sabo, xx. 2. They occupied the sea-coast of Gadrosia, or Beloochistan. Cf,
Aleiphron (Episolae i. 1,2)

194 A man of Callatis, a town on the Black Sea in Thrace, originally colonized by the
Mitesians

198 CE Herodoms, 193

196 Pura was near the borders of Carmania, probably at Bampur. The name means town,

101 CE. Strabo, xv. 2; Dindorus, i 19,20, According to Megasthenes, Semiramis died
before she could carry out her intended invasion of India. See Arian (Indica, 5). Neither
Herodotus nor Ctesias mentions an invasion of India by Cyrus; and according to Arcan
(Undica, 9), he Indians expressly denied that Cyrus attacked them,

198 Strabo says that some of these marches extended 200, 400, and even 600 stades;
most ofthe marching being done inthe nigh, Krier substitutes Sopnézpows for Eup:

DOVE Theydides, i 49,3.

‘300 Cf. Xenophon (nab. vii §, 13); Homer (Oa. vil 283),

S01 Curtus (vi, 20) mentions a similar act of magnanimity as having occurred om the
‘march in pursuit of Bessus through the desert to the river Oxus. Plutarch (Alex. 42) says it
was when Alexander was pursuing Darius; Froninus(Srateyematica, i 7,7) says it was in
the desert of Africa; Pohaenus (iv. 3,28) relates the aneedote without specifying where the
‘event occurred, yeeeéepot is an fone frm very frequently used by Herodotus,

‘802 Compare note on page 146

‘808 This man had been placed over the Ortians. See page 351 supra

‘S08 Curius (x, 41) says that Craterus sent a messenger to the king, to say that he was
holding in chains two Persian nobles, Ozines and Zeriaspes, who had been tying to effect a
revolt

OS The Arcians were famed for their skill as profesional moumers. See Aeschjlus
Ohacahrae dD4y Pon thee nein cot dhe curve cite Pension phigh, tennis wat ety


Page 209, Instance 0, Class: Text
807 According to Curtius (x. 1), Cleander and hs colleagues were not sin, but put into
Prison; whereas 600 of the soldiers who had been the agents oftheir cruelty were put 19
‘death. Cutis says Cleander was spared for having killed Parmenio with his own hand. CE
ii, 26 supra

S08 The thriambus was a hymn to Bacchus, sung in festal processions in his honour It
was also used as a name of that deity, as we lear from Diodorus, v8. It was afterwards
used a synonymous with the Roman zriumphus, by Polybius, Dionysius, and Plutarch,

809 The Bacchanalian procession through Carmania is described by Curtis (ix. 42)
Plutarch (ex. 67), and Diodorus (xvi. 106)

‘810 Diodorus (xvi, 106) says that the port into which Nearchus put was called Salmus

LL dexspiniatiooves. The Atic fiture of niéw is wasiooya. iévaw is ony found in
Polybius and the later writers

‘S12 Soe Arian Indica, 18-43).

‘313 The mame for Persia and the Persians in the Hebrow Bible, is Paras. Cyrus is called
Koresh (the sun) in Hebrew; inthe cuneiform inscriptions the name is Khurush. Cambyses
is called Ahasuerus in Ezra i, 6; and Smerdis the Magian is the Artxertes who Was
induced by the Samaritans to forbid the further building of the temple (Ezra iv. 7-28). The
[Ahasueus of the Hook of Esther is probably Xerxes. Anaxerxes the Long-handed was the
patron of Ezra and Nehemiah (Ezza vil. 11-28; Neb i, 1-9, ete). "Darius the Persian,”
mentioned in Neh. xi. 22, was probably Darius Codomannus, who was conguered by
Alexander The province of Susiana, previously called Elymais, appears in the Hebrew
lundr the name of Ela ot Elam, Peas i stil called Fars,

Sldne. 325

SIS Aria, See chap. 27 supra,

[6 Curtus (x) says Orxines was descended from Cyrus.

SLT See i. 25 supe,

LS Cf. Strabo, xv. 3, where a description of this tomb is given, derived from
‘Onesicrtus, the pilot of Alexander. See Dean Blakesley’s note on Herodotus. 214

[19 Justa few lines above, Arian say thatthe couch was by the side ofthe coin,

320 Cf Ammianus, xxii. 6, 32, 33. The Magi were the priests of the ecligion of
Zoroaster, which was professed by the Medes and Persians. Their Bible was the Avesta,
‘originally consisting of twenty-one books, only one of which, the twentieth (Vendidad) is
sill extant

821 See i. 18 supra

822 According to Curus (x4, 5) Orines was not only innocent, but was very devoted
and atached to Alexander. The favourite eunuch, Bagoas, poisoned the king’ mind against
him, and suborned other accusers against him. He was condemned unheard.

823 Purpura ct nitor compris, omatusque Perscus multo auro multisque gemmis.—
Cicer (de Senectute, 17),

824 Pasargadac was the ancient eapital of Cyrus, but Persepolis was that of the later
kings of Persia. The tomb of Cyrus his been discovered at Murghab: consequently
Parsagadae was on the banks ofthe river Cyrus, N.E. of Persepolis. The later city was at
the junction ofthe Aranes and Meds. ts extensive runs recalled Chel-Minar, “the forty
columns.”

82S The Tigris rises in Armenia, and joins the Euphrates ninety miles from the sea, the
united stream being then called Shat-cl-Arab. In ancient times the two rivers hd distinct
‘outlets In the Hebrew the Tigns i called Chiddekel, e arrow. The Greek name Tigres is
‘derived from the Zend Tighra, which comes from the Sanscrit Tig, to sharpen. Its present


Page 210, Instance 0, Class: Text
miles. / /

1826 Among these were Citius (x 3); Diadorus (xvi 4); and Plutarch (Ale. 68).

827 Gadeira or Gades was a Phoenician colony. The name is from the Hebrew 71, @
fence. Ck. Pliny (js. 36; appellant Poesi Gadir ita Punica lingua septum significante. Also
‘Avienus (Ora Marima, 268)- Punicorum lingua conseptum locum Guddir vocabat
‘According to Pliny (vl), Suetonius Paulinus was the first Roman general who crossed the
Atlas Mountains.

28 See note 714, page 309.

829 Now called Capo di Leuca, the southeastern point of lly

830CE Arian (Indica, 10,

S31 CE Aleiphron (Epistola, i. 30, 1), with Bengle and Wagner's notes

32 This mast have occured 1c. 336, See Plutarch (Alex. 14); Cicero (Tusculanae
Disputationes, v. 32). Alexander said: “It 1 were not Alexander, I should like t0 be
Diogenes” Ch. Arvian i 1; Plutarch (de Forti Ale. p. 331)

833 CF Strabo, x0. 1

83 Strabo cals this sage Mandanis.

13S Strabo says, Alexander's messengers summoned Mandanis tothe son of Zeus.

836 Plutarch (Alex. 65) says ths philosopher's name was Spines; but the Greeks called
him Calanus, because witen he met them, instead of using the word zap greting them, he
Said xa. The same author says tht he was persuaded to come to Alexander by Taxiles,
See also Sivabo (x1)

37 Siraho (av. 1) says thatthe voluntary death of Calanus occurred at Pasargadae:
Aclian (lara Historia, v. 6) says i was at Babylon; but Diodorus (xvii. 107) says it
happened at Susa, which statement is confirmed by the fact of Nearchus being seemingly
preset.

‘828 Cf. Arran (nic, 10).

$39 Cl. Arvin, vi. 13 infin; and Herodoms, vi 40.

‘840 CL, Cicero (Tase: Dispur. v.27)

SL Media, See v.29 supra

‘342 Oxathres was killed by Alexander himself witha sarissa, or long Macedonian pike.
See Plutarch (ex 68), who calls him Oxyarts.

43 For this use of g@ipom, ef. Aristophanes (Pltus, 610}; Alciphron, i. 13, 3 with
Bergler's note

SAE CE Curtis, x5.

AAS She was also called Stati, See Diodorus, xvi, 107; Plutarch (Ales, 70). She is
called Arsinoe by Photius.

‘S46 “By these two marriages, Alexander thus engrafted himself upon the two lines of
antecedent Persian kings. Ochus was of the Achaemenid family, but Darius Codomannus,
father of Stair, was not ofthat family; he began a new lineage. About the overweening
regal state of Alexander, outdoing even the previous Persian kings, see Pylarohus apud
Athenaeum, xi. p- 539." Grote

‘SAT See p. 242.

‘S48 CE. Aclian (Varia Historia vil 7). A copious account ofthis celebrated mariage
feasts given in Athenaus, xii. p. 538


Page 211, Instance 0, Class: Text
Plutarch (Alex., 70); Curtus (x. 8) say 10,000 talents. °

SL CE Curtis (x. 41), Arian (vi 22) supra

852 The Epigoni, or Afterbor, were the sons ofthe seven chiefs who fll inthe first war
against Thebes. See Herodotus, Pindar, Sophocles, etc.

853 For this mesanculon see Gelli (Noctes Aticae, x. 28}; Polvbius, xxl, 1, 9
Euripides (Phoonissae, 1141; Andromache, 1133), Aleiphron, i 36

|SS¢ It was at this time that Harpalus, viceroy of Babylon, having squandered a great
deal ofthe treasure committed to his charge, became frightened atthe tum of Alexander,
and fled to Greece with 50,000 talents and 6,000 mercenary troops. See Diadorus, xvii 108

SS The Fulacus is now called Kara Su. After joining the Coprtes it was called
Pasitigrs. t formerly discharge itself into the Persian Gulf, but now into the Shate-Arah,
asthe united steam of the Euphrates and Tigris is now called. In Dan. vi 2 16, iis called
Ulai, Cf Pliny, vi. 26,31; x48. 21

[836 The Greeks and Romans sometimes speak of Mesopotamia as apart of Syria, and at
‘other times they call it apart of Assyria. The Hebrew and native name of this country was
‘Aram Naharaim, or “Syria of the two rivers"

882 The Tigris now falls ino the Euphrates.

‘888 CL. Arvin, 7, supra: Cuts, iv 37.

[859 CL. Sabo, xvi. 1; Herodoms, i. 193; Ammianus, xxiv. 3,14

860 Probably this ety stood atthe junction of the Tigris with the Physcus, or Odorneh,
See Xenophon (Anahi, 4, 28); Herodotus, i 189; Strabo, (xvi. 1) says that Alexander
made the Tigris navigable up to Opis.

OL CE Justin (i 1): Diodorus (xvi 109); Curtus (x. 10, 11). These authors put the
punishment ofthe ringleaders afer the speech instead of befor.

‘362 Thracians mean mountaineers; Hellenes, warriors, Dorians,highlanders;lonians,
‘coast-men; and Acolians, mited men. Sce Donaldson (New Cratylus, set 92)

‘863 The gold and silver mines at Mount Pangacon near Philippi brought Philip 2 yearly
revenue of more than 1,000 talens (Diodorus, xv. 8). Herodotus (17) says thatthe silver
‘mines at Mount Dysorum brought a talent every day to Alexander, father of Amynias

‘3G! This is a Demosthenic expression. See De Falsa Legation, 92; and I. Philippe, 48.

65 me. 346,

‘3 He here refers to his own part inthe victory of Chaeronca,#.c. 336, See Diodorus,
svi 86; Plutarch (les. 9),

‘861 This facts attested by Demosthenes (De Haloneso, 12),

[868 The Thebans under Pelopidas settled the aflsirs of Macedonia, and took young
Philip fo Thebes as a hostage, nc. 368.

169 About £122,000. Ct Plutarch (Alex. 15); Curtis, x. 10,

810 “Tov is the Hebrew Javan without the vowel points. In the Persian name for the
Greeks Iéoves, one of these vowels appear. See Aesehlus (Persae, 178, $62).

‘821 Larger Phrygia formed the western part of the great central tble-land of Asia
Minor. Smaller Phrygia was also called Hellespontine Phrygia, because it lay neat the
Hellespont. See Strabo, xi. 8

[872A blue band worked with white, which went round the ira of the Persian kings.

ATS Ch Ammianus, xxv. 4, 15: “Gulianus) id aliquoties pracdicans, Alexandrum
“Magnum, ubi haberetshesauros interrogatum, apud amicos benevoe response.

ob OF dose 4 Meee


Page 212, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Mus nation.

AIGA the Persian cour, kinsman was atte bestowed by the king as a mark of honour.
‘Curtius says they were 15,000 in number. CE. Diadorus, xvi. $0; Xenophon (Cyropuaedia, i
4,27;4.2,30),

'$27 As to this Persian custom, see Xenophon (Agesilaus, v. 4; Cropaedia i. 4, 27).

S08 Ch Juin, xi 7; Plutarch (Eumenes, 16); Curtis, vill, 175 Livy xxxvii. 405
Polybius, 79,4

19 Sevow anapotivtes. The more usual construction would be Emipoww pivovres. CE
Herodons, ix 5 (aapéere yévovtes); i. $1 (Baxapesioropé)

880"The pacan was sung, nt only before and after battle, but also after a banguet, as we
sce from this passage and from Xenophon (Shmposium ji, 1,

[SSL About £240.

‘382 Literally “with his own head," an Homeric expression. We leam from Plutarch
(Eunenes, 6), that Craterus was a grat favourite with the Macedonians because he eppesed
Alexander's Asiatic innovations. See also Plutarch (Alexander, 47); Diodorus, xvi. 1H4—
Kpitepov uv yap eva gitofacihea, Hpaiariova Bt giahisavdpov

[388 The use of eater with the dative, i in imitation of Homer. CE. 26,3 supra

38 We leam ffom Diodorus (xvi. 4) that when Alexander died, Crates had got 90
farther shan Cilicia on bis tum journey. He had with him a paper of wniten instructions,
among which were projects for building an immense Nest in Phoenicia and the adjacent
‘counties for conveying an expedition against the Carthaginians and the other western
rations as far asthe pillars of Hercules; forthe erection of magnificent temples, and for the
transportation of people from Europe into Asia and from Asia into Europe. Alexander's
general pu these projects aside, as too vast for any one but Alexander himsll

BRS CE Curtis, x 31

6 "The Greeks reckoned acconding to the lunar months, and therefore they talked often
months instead of nine as the period of gestation, Cf, Hemadots, vi. 63; Aristophanes
(Thesmoph. 742), Menander (Plocion, fragment 3); Plutus (Cistell 1. 3, 15); Terence
(delphi 4,29),

[S87 For this expression, cf Dion Cassius, slit $7; Homer (Wiad, 23, $38), Pausanias,
iL 10,2; Herodons, ii 104

SS Here there is a gap in the manuscripts of Arran, which probably contained an
account ofthe flight of Harpalus, the viceroy of Babylon, with the teasures commited to
his care, and also a description of the dispute between Hephaestion and Eumenes. See
Phonus (codex 92),

80 CE Plutarch (Eumenes, 2),

901 The march was ffom Opis to Media, as we sce from the next chapter

891 CE Herodonus (ii 106; vii 40); Swabo, xi. 7 and L4; Diador. xvi. 110; Ammvianus,
sali. 6. Sir Henry Rawlinson says: "With Herodotus, who was most imperfectly acquainted
With the geography of Media, originated the error of transferring to that province the Nisea
(Nesé) of Khorassan, and all ater writers either copied or confounded his statement. Strabo
alone has escaped ffom the general confusion. In his description we recognise the great
srazing plains of Khawah, Alishar, Huru,Silakhur, Burburud, Japalak, and Feridun, which
this stetch in a continuous lin from one point to another along the souther frontiers of
Medi.” Alexander probably visited the westemmost of these pastures which stretch from
Lchistn to Ispahan along the mountain range. The form Suaprervan is used only by the
later writers for Siapracdva

892 CE Strabo, xi. $; Diodorus, wil. 77; Curtis, vi. 19; Justin, xi. 3; Arvian, iw. 1S;
Se NG 8 OUI NT TNS CMETNGS Mh ONS ABN NEE SS TN NS


Page 213, Instance 0, Class: Text
ESS The quece called Thnbcgtres by Deere emt) Contin.

‘804 This isa mistake, for Xenophon does mention the Amazons inthe Anabasis (v4,
16) For Trapezus andthe Phasians see his dnabass (iv 8,22; v6, 36.)

9S See Diodorus, v.16. This was one ofthe twelve labours of Hercules

896 See Plutarch (Theseus, 26)

07 “The Battle of the Amazons” was a celebrated painting in the Stoa Poecile at
Athens, executed by Micon, son of Phanichus, a contemporary af Polygnotus about 8c
460. Ct Asstophanes (Lysirata, 678): “Look at the Amazons whom Micon painted on
horseback fighting withthe men.” See also Pausanias (1: vii. 11),

98 CE Herodoms, iv. 110-117; ix 27

899 See Isoerates (Paneuricus, 19); Lysias (Orato Funebris, near the beginsing)

200 Strabo (ai. 5) declined to believe in the existence of the Amazons altogether.
However, even Julius Casar spoke of them as having once ruled over a large part of Asia,
See Suetonius (Life of Julius Cesar, 22) Eustathius, on Dionysius Peregetes, p. 110,
derives the name Amazones from @ not, and yin, harley-bread-—Bid Kai Ayatives
furodvee ofa pi wiGans dai xpéaor Onpioy émorpepdyev. This is not the usual
derivation of the word,

‘901 Ch, Plutarch (Alex. 72); Diodorus (xvii. 10),

(902 Plutarch makes this statement

(903 See Homer (iad, xxii 141, 152); Arian (12)

‘908 See Heradotus (ii, 35). Xerces means the venerable king. CE. Herod. vi. 98. See
Donaldson's New Crans, sections 161, 479.

905 Epidaurus in Amgolis was celebrated asthe chic seat ofthe worship of Aesculapius.

906 This isan Homeric expression, meaning myself

907 Equal to €2,300,000. Plutarch (Alex. 72) agrees with Arrian. Diodorus (xii. 118)
and Justin (i. 12) say 12,00 talents

908 CE Actin Varia Historia, vi. 8); Diodorus (xii 114, 118); Plutarch (Alex. 72, 75;
Eumenes, 2; Plopidas, 34).

200 See p. 392, note $88.

‘910 Cosstea was a district on the north-east of Susiana, which the Persian kings never
subdued, but purchased the quict of the inhabitants by paying dhem tribute. Is supposed 19
be the Cush ofthe Old Testament. Diodorus (xvii. 111 says that Alexander completed his
‘conquest of the Cossaeans in forty days, Plutarch (Alex, 72) says he called the massacre of
the Cossacans his ering tothe manes of Hephaestion.

‘O11 CE Livy, i 37,38; Pliny, xxi 4s Justin, ii 13,

‘912 The Romans called these people Etrascans.

‘913 Justin (xx. 6) says tht the Carthaginians sent Hamilcar to lear Alexander's real
designs against them, under the pretence of being an exile offering his services.

914 CE Diodorus, xvi. U3.

918 Arstus was a man of Salamis in Cyprus. Neither his work nor that of Asclepiades is
‘extant Aristus is mentioned by Athenaus (x. 10) and Strabo (ib. xx)

916 Livy ix. 18) says he doesnot thnk the contemporary Romans even knew Alexander
by report

‘917 These are what Hirtius (Hell Alex. 11 calls “aves aperas et constrats.”


Page 214, Instance 0, Class: Text
largest river which he had seen except those in India

920 See p. 19%, note 498. The Oxus and Jaxartes really flow into the Sea of Aral, othe
Plus Oxiana, which was first noticed by Ammianus Marcellinus (xxii. 6, $9) in the 4th
century 4, Polemy, however, mentions i as 2 small lake, and not as the recipient ofthese
rivers. CE. Pliny, vi. 18

921 The Araxes, or Aras, joins the Cyrus, or Kout, and fills into the Caspian Sea. tt is
now called Kizil-Ozan, or Red River. lis Hebrew name is Chabor (2 Kings xvii. 6). Pontem
indignatus Araxes (Vergil, Aeneid, vi, 728) See Aeschilus (Prometheus, 736), Dr. Paley's

1922 As the Chaldacans, see Cicero (De Div, i !) and Diod. (i. 9-31)

1923 This is averse from one of the lost tragedies of Euripides. It is also quoted by
Cicero (De Divin, i. 5}: Est quidam Graccus vulgaris in hane Sententiam versus; bene qui
<onjicie,vatem hune peehibebo optimum,

924 See Herodotus (i. 32}; Plutarch (Solon, 27).

928 Seep. 171, note 430. Herodotus (i. 181) gives a description ofthis temple, which he
says existed in his time. Strabo (xvi 1) agrees with Artian that it was said to have been
destroyed by Xerxes. He also says that Alexander employed 10,000 men in clearing away’
the rubbish of the ruins. Professor Sayce and others adduce this passage of Arran to prove
that Herodotus is not to be tsted even when he says he had seen the places and things
Which he describes. The words of Herodotus are és Eye roOro Ex dv, meaning, not that he
had himself scen the temple, but that it existed il his ime, In chap. 183 he expressly states
that he did not sce other things which he ix describing but that he derived his information
fom the Chaldacans. He was about twenty years of age when Xerxes was assassinated. It
must not be forgotten that Stabo and Acrian lived five or six hundred years after Xerxes
The veracity of Suabo is never doubted: yet in his description of Babylon ths author speaks
of the walls and hunging gardens as if they were sill in existence, though not expressly
saying so.

926 CE Arian, ii 16 supe,

22 See Arran, i. 16 supra

2S Ch Philosteats (Life of Apollonius, il. 7,8).

1229 Perdiceas was killed by his own troops at Memphis, nc. 321. See Diodorus, xvi
36.

‘930 The battle of Ipsus was fought nc. 301. See Plutarch (Demetrius, 29)

‘931 Dindorus (xvii, 113) says that embassies came from the Carthaginians, Liby-
Phocnicians, Greeks, Macedonians, liyrians, Thracians, and Gauls

932 CE Arian, ii 16 supra

933 The name Athens is said to have been derived from the worship of Athena. See
Euripides (on, 8) Nol rg ypoaohéyyov Tadd xexiquévy. Attica is Gre oar}
“rythe “promontory land”

‘934 Clazomenae was an lonian city on the Gulf of Smyena, celebrated asthe bishplace
‘of Anaxagoras. It is now called Kelisman,

938 About £1 200,000

936 The Hebrew name for Arabia is Arab (wilderness). In Gen. xxv. 6 it is called the
“East county." and in Gen. xxix 1 the “Land ofthe Sons ofthe Eas.”

939 CE Arian, v.26; vi. and 15 supra

228 Ch. Herodons, i 8.


Page 215, Instance 0, Class: Text
941 One of the Sporades, west of Samos, now called Nikaria. Cf. Horace (Carm, iv. 2,
2) and Ovid Fast, iv. 28)

942 Called Tyrus by Strabo (xv. 3). It is now called Bahrein, and is celebrated for peal
fisheries.

‘243 A fragment of the work of Androsthenes descriptive of his voyage is preserved by
Atenas (i p.936).

‘944 Probably Ramses. is ruins are at Abu-Kesheb,

945 Probably the projection now called Ras-al-Had

(946 Ct. Arsian Indica, 32).

‘947 About 90 miles. This canal fell ino the Persian Gull at Teredon. No trace of it now

48 The Hebrew name for Armenia is Ararat (2 Kings xix. 37; Isa, wx 38 Je.
27,

(249 The county called Assyria by the Grecks is called Asshur (level) in Hebrew. In
Gen, x 11 the foundation of the Assyrian kingdom is ascribed to Nimrod; for the verse
‘ought to be translated: "He went forth fom that land into Asshur” Hence in Micah v. 6,
‘Assyria called the “land of Nimrod.”

951) The Hebrew name for Babylon is Babel, i. Bab-Bcl, court of Bel: porta vel aul,
civitas Beli (Winer). In Jer x0. 26; li Al, it is called Sheshach, which Jewish
‘commentators, followed by Jerome, explain by the Canon Atbash, Le after the alphabet put
in an inverted onder. According to this rule the word Babel, which isthe Hebrew name of
Babylon, would be written Sheshach. Sir Henry Rawlinson, however, says it was the name
‘of god after whom the ety was named; and the word has been found among the Assyrian
inscriptions representing # deity

.9S1 The perfect passive Sedounjn is equivalent to the Epc and lonic form BéSunp

982 oyahivat. See p. 268, note 629.

988 rw vis tv. This postion of vi is an imitation of the usage in Tonic prose. Cf
Hered. 88; x ts Tepaéay. See Liddell and Seot, sub voce i, CE Arian, i 26, 4; vi
9,35 3,45 22, $524, 2

984 Ch. Arvian v.13 supra.

985 Ch Arran, 6.18

‘986 The Macedonian statr was worth about £1 3s. 6d

982 Ch. Arran (actes, 12,1)

958 Cf, Arvin, p. 379, note 853.

989 We read in the speech of Demosthenes against Dionysiodorus (1285), that
‘Cleomenes and his partisans enriched themselves by monopolizing the exportation of com
from Egypt. Cl. Avrian, i 5 supra,

‘960 This island is mentioned by Homer (Oshsse, iv. 385). Alexander constructed a
mole seven stades long from the coast to the island, thus forming the two harbours of
Alexandria. See Saubo, xvi. 1. The island is chiefly famous forthe lofty tower built upon it
by Ptolemy Philadelphus, fora lighthouse. CE. Cesar (De Bello Civili, i. 112); Ammianus,
si 16

961 Consult Lucian (Calumniae non temere redendum, 17)

962 After Alexander's death Cleomenes was executed by Ptolemy, who received Egypt
‘as his share of the great king's dominions.


Page 216, Instance 0, Class: Text
latter says his name was Dionysius, and that he was a Messenian.

965 Pltarh (lex, 75) and Justin (i. 13) say that he gave a banquet to Nearchus the
sudmiral, and that, ashe was leaving it, he was invited tothe revel by Medius the Thessalian,
Cf. Diodorus, ii. 117

‘266 We learn fom Athenueus (x. p. 434 B) that this Court Journal was kept bythe royal
secretary, Eumenes, aflerwards so famous, ad by the historian, Diodotus of Erythrac. As to
the last days of Alexander, cf Plutarch (Alex. 76, 7)

962 CE. Curtis, ix. 23: Mos erat principibus amicorum et custodibus corporis excubare
ante practorium, quotiens advera regi valtido incidissc.

‘268 Serips, or more correctly Sarapis, was an Egyptian deity, whose worship was
inoduced into Greece in the time ofthe Piolemies. His worship was intoduced into Rome,
With that of Iss, in the ime of Sulla. Strabo (xvi 1) gives an account of his eultus in the
celebrated temple at Canobus. The Serspeum at Alexandria, which contained the famous
library is described by Ammianus, xxi. 16

969 Le the most valiant.

{220 To decide who was to succeed to his power. CE Curtus, x. M4; Diadorus, xii, 117;
Justin, xi 15.

971 CE. Curtus, x. 31; Diodorus, xvi 117, 18; Justin, xi 13. Plutarch (Alex, 77)
asserts that nothing was said about Alexander's being poisoned, until six years after, when
‘Olympias, the enemy of Antipatr, set the charge afloat.

(922 See Arran, iv. 10 supra

978 Cassander was afterwards king of Macedonia and Greece. He put Olympias,
Roxana, and her son Alexander Aegus to death, and bribed Polysperchon to put Barsine and
her son Hercules to death. He died of dropsy, mc. 297,

974 CE, Pausanias, xvii. 4; Curtin, x. 31; Plutarch (Alex, 77). The ancients called the
poison, “the water of Siyx it was obtained from Nonacris inthe north of Arcadia, near
Which the river Styx took its origin. Justin (xi. 14) says: Cujus veneni tanta Vis fui, ut non
acre, non fero, non testa contineretur, nec alter ferr nisi in ungula equi potuerit. Pliny
(Hist Nar, xx. $3) says: Ungulas tantum mularum reperas, neque aiam ullam materiam
‘quae non perroderetur a veneno Stygis aqute, cum id dandum Alexandeo magno Antipater
ritteret,dignum memoria est, magna Aristtclisinfamia excopitatum,

‘925 Diodorus (xvi. 117) states that after drinking freely, Alexander swallowed the
contents of large goblet, called the cup of Heracles, and was immediately seized with
Violent pain. This statement, however, is contradicted by Plutarch. It seems ftom the last
injunction of Calamus, the Indian philosopher, that it was considered the right thing to drink
to intoxication a the funeral af a friend, See Plutarch (Alex, 69)

(276 June, 323 nc

{272 Prolemy took the embalmed body of Alexander to Egypt, and placed it in Memphis,
bout removed it a few yoars after to Alexandria. See Curtis, x. 31. Cf, Aclian (aria
Historia, xi 64 xii 29)

918 CE Diodorus, xvi 4: dBi 108 veavieno.

979 CE. Curtis, x. 18: Gloria laudisgue, ut justo major cupido, ita ut juveni et i tants
sdimitenda reba

9M) Plutarch (lex, 28) atributes the same motive to Alexander in representing himself
to be the son of Zeus. Livy (ix. 18) says: Refere in tanto rege piget superbum muationem
vests et desideratas hum jacentium adulationes,ctam victis Macedonibus graves, nedum
Victorbus; et foeda supplicia, et inter vinum et epula, caedes amicorum et vanittem
‘ementicnda sips. Consul the whole ofthe interesting passage in Lip ix. 17-19. See also
‘Aelian (Varia Historia i. 19; v.12; 3%. 37).


Page 217, Instance 0, Class: Text
982 Xenophon (Coropaedia, vi 5,85) says thatthe Persian Equals-in-Honour, or Peers,
spent heir time about the Cour.

983 Ck Arian, iv. 14 supra; Justin, ix. 8; Atenas, x. p. 434 B; Acian (Varia Historia,
ii, 23; bx 3; xi 26).

‘98 Europe and Asia. Arran reckoned Libya, or Aftica, asa part of Asia. See ii, 30;
26, vi |

‘O85 Dr. Leonhard Schmitz says:—"Arrian is in this work one of the most excellent
vwiters of his time, above which he is raised by his simplicity and his unbiassed judgment,
Great as his ments thus areas an historian, they are yet surpassed by his excellence as an
historical crite. His Anabasis is based upon the most trustworthy historians among the
‘contemporaries of Alexander, such as Ptolemy, Aristobulus, which two he chiefly followed,
Diodots of Erythrac, Eumenes of Cardia, Nearchus of Crete, and Megasthenes; and his
sound judgment as to who deserved credit, justly led him to reject such authors as
‘Onesicrtus, Callsthenes, and others. No one at all acquainted with this work of Arians can
refuse his asset tothe epinion of Photius (p. 73; comp. Lucian, Alex, 2), that Arvian was
the best among the numerous historians of Alexander. One ofthe grt merits of the work,
independent of those already mentioned, is the cleamess and distintness with which he
describes all military movements and operations, the drawing up of the armies for battle,
and the conduct of battles and sieges. In all these respects the Anabasis is a mastcry
production, and Arvian shows that he himself possessed a thorough practical knowledge of
nilitary aflairs. He seldom introduces speeches, but wherever he does he shows a profound
knowledge of man; and the speech of Alexander to his rebellious soldiers, andthe reply of
‘Cocaus, as well a5 some other speeches, are masterly specimens of oratory. Everything,
moreover, which isnot necessary to make his narative clea is careflly avoided." See
Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography


Page 218, Instance 0, Class: Text
Achmetha, 179.

Acropolis of Athens, 49,173.
[Acropolis of Saris, 50
Aciphis, 266-268,

‘Ada, 65, 66.

‘Addacus, 63,64

‘Admétus, 131-133

‘Adénis, 116

Adraistacan, 301.

‘Acacus, 26,425,

‘Acacidac, 138

Acgae, 36

‘Aegean Sea, 10, 408
Acgina, 334.

Acgospotami, 31, 57.
Acgyptus, 276, 38.

‘Acoli and Acolans, $2, 21,186,383, 385.
Acschines, 9, 113, 180
cscs, 149, 269, 338
Acsculapus, 88, 397
‘Actolian, 26, 34
Afghanistan, 155, 101
Africa, 108,203, 309.
‘Agallassa, 328
‘Agamemnon, 32

Agatho, 44, 164

Agénor, 133.

Agésilats, 110

‘gis IL, 109, 110,173
Agis the Argive, 223.
‘Sgrianians, 11, 18,12, 21, 23 et passim
Ahasuerus, 364,

Aithiops, 272.

Alani, 24

Albanians, 15S, 16, 164
Albion, 125.

Aleetas, 246,255,256, 283,
Aleias, 77

Aleméng, 117, 145.

lian Pai, 89.

Alexander L 33,383.
Alexander the Great, passim
Alexander Aegus, 242,421.
Alexander, son of Adropus, 27, SI, 68.
Alexander the Epirote, 152
Alexandria, 141, 142,143, 197, 206,210,247, 266, 340, 351, 416,42
linda, 66.

Alpes, 125

‘Aminie Gates, 9.
‘Amastring, 35

Amathis, 129,

Amazons, 234, 393-395,


Page 219, Instance 1, Class: Text
Amminaspes, 185.

Ammn, 144-148, 223,320, 347, 382, 397,415.
Amphiarais, 89

Amplilochians, 119.

Ampilochus, 9.

Amplion, 30.

Amphipolis, 10,1213, 37, 98, 107.
Ampitet, 520,

Amploterus, 10,144, 150.

Amyntas of Macedon, 19, 65,

Amyntas, son of Antiochus, 1, 62, 90, 21, 107, 109,
Amyntas, son of Andromenes, 29,43, 30 59,162, 178,174, 177,188,190, 192, 195,
Amyntas, son of Arthabacus, 40, 43-45, 9, 74, 95,
Amyntas, son of Nicolas, 237, 238, 247
Amyntas the Theban, 25.

Anaxagoras, $07.

Anaxarchus, 222-226,

Anaxippus, 191, 192.

Aanchialus, 87, 88

Ancyr, 84

Andocles, 129.

Andromachus, 127, 150, 162, 192,210, 213-215.
Andronicus, 189, 101

Androsthenes, 409,

Anicétus, LM,

Atacus, 145.

Antalcidas, 72, 80.

Aateas, 363.

Anthems, 28

Antibes, 182.

Aaticles, 230,

Aatigénes, 291,344.

Antigone, 193

AatigSnus, 6,88, 305, 405,

Anti-Libinus, 125,156, 308,

Antiochus, 97,149,263,

Aatipate, 26, 36,43, 81, 102, 105, 102, 148,162,173, 231, 391,392,421.
Antiate, son of Asclepiodorus, 230.
Atiphilus, 108.

Antoninus Pius, 2

Aomus, 199, 258-263, 310.

Apelles, 48, $3, 88.

Aphrices, 279.

Apis, 2.

Apollo, 148,196, 204, 382,390,425
Apollodsras, 171,404, 405,

Apollonia, 40,98

Apollonies, 1s.

Apollonius, 149.

Apollonius Rhodius, 56, 346.

Apollophanes, 351, 360.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The Project Gutenberg eBook of Anabasis of Alexander, by Arrian_/Form\page_220instance0.jpg]

Page 220, Instance 1, Class: Text
Arabian Gulf, 410.

Arabians, 350.

Arabius River, 349, 350,

Arachotia and Arachotians, 18S, 161, 183, 197,278, 283, 34, 344, 360, 378, 387,

Adu, 108, 111

Aral Sea, 198, 199, 202,234,274, 401.

Aram, 87, 107,156, 380,

Ardea, 411

Aras, 88,

Axes, 17, 401.

Arbéla, 13, 98, 186-171, 334

Arbupaies, 48

Arcadia and Arcadian, 32,34, 421,

Arehelas, 36,173, 199

Archias, 402

Arconnésus, 6.

Areia and Areians 15S, 191-193, 197,200, 216, 361,378

Areius River, 216,

Ares, 45.

Arete, 164, 166, 167

Artis, 46,

Argos and Argives, Sl, $8, 82, 217,224,222.

Ariaces, 156,

Ariaspians, 196,

Arigaeum, 251

Arimmas, 152

Ariobarzanes, 185, 176, 172,128 189.

Arisa, 0,

Aristander, 36,20, 121,137, 143, 154, 170, 11, 212,238,

Aristo, 97 162, 164, 165.

Aistobilus, 3, 6 83,85, LOL 105, 145,146, 148, 160, 193,197, 198, 202,209, 214, 20, 230,
406, 400,414, 917, 421, 423,425, 27

Aristogeiton, 173, 224, 406

Aistomédes, 107 6

Aisonfeus, 143,144, 236, 237,

Arisonois, 363

Aristophanes, 121,182, 170, 231,394

Arisiophon, 185,

Aristotle, 8, 18,68, 81,125,223, 252,271, 308,421.

Ariss, 3, 399.

Armenia and Armenians, 107,153, 155, 156, 161,170, 17, 273, 401, 4UL

Arthabacus, 68.

Arohybas, 119,

Arian, 1-5, 9, 10, 14 20,28, 40, 4,49, 98, 11, 102, 119,162,168, 179, 202,203, 244,258,

Arsaces, 315.

Arsames, 40, 85, 103, 189,193, 200,216.

Arses, 112, 113

Arsimas, 112

Arsinos, 375,

Aste, 40, 41,48, 0.


Page 221, Instance 0, Class: Text
Artabazus, 183, 189, 197, 199, 234-237, 242, 375.

‘Artacama, 375.

‘Artacoana, 02,193.

‘Ariaernes, 39, 12,113, 192, 224 227,271, 364

Artis, 52, 53, 406, 409.

Artemisia, 66

‘Artemis, S34

ibs, 379.

Annis, 225,

Anad, ILL

Asander, SL 88,217.

‘Ascania Lake, 76

Asclpiadae, 333,

Asolépiades, 3,399.

‘Asclépiodorus, 148,152,171, 217, 230

Asolpius, 88,333,396,

Asi, 37,38, 49,58, 66, 91 93,106, 112, 114,155, 156,158,178, 192, 197,200, 203,205, 210,
234,242,243, 270-272, 274, 276, 302,369,406, 426

‘Asia Minor, 53, 59 26, 79,108, 151,273,275, 276, 308

Aspasians, 249-251

Aspendus, 21-73

Assacénians, 249,253, 254, 263, 298.

Assacéaus, 256, 263,

Assagétes, 259,

Assur, 1.

‘Assyria and Assyrians, 87, 89,91, 154,156, 172,380, 407, 41-413,

Astes, 248

Abas, 413.

‘Athalia, 58.

Ataris, 6.

[Athéna, 38,49, 89, 108, 148,247, 406,

Athena, 109,

‘Athens and the Athenians, 1, 8 9, 26, 4, 4, 38,7, 49, 77,79, 9, 105,113,115, 120, 150, 173,

Atizyes, 62, 103.

Atlas Mountain, 309,362

Atropates, 18S, 239, 165, 324,325,398, 395.

Attalus, 98, 163, 184, 195, 221, 235,246, 280,252,256, 284, M4, 420.

Attica, 27, 406,

Attias, 232.

Attock, 279,

Attia, 154, 156

‘Audaca, 250.

‘Aurelius, 2.

Austanes, 246,247.

‘Autaiatians, 19,

Autobares, 379

‘Autophradates, 72, 80, 109-111, 117, 124, 143,189,190, 239.

Aven, 14L

‘viens, 18,369

‘Avon, 14.


Page 222, Instance 0, Class: Text
aal, 117,171.

Babel, 413.

Babylon, 24 153,171, 172,224, 239,308, 372, 385, 396-420.
Pabylonians, 155, 156,161, 171, 402.
Bacchus, 221,268, 362.

Bacehylides, 39

Bacta, 187, 192, 196, 109, 202, 206,233, 246, 247, 312, 388.
actrians, 155,161, 165, 170, 183, 192, 198, 199, 206, 234, 235, 237, 238, 378, 387
Bactca, 1S.

Bagac, 238

Bagistnes, 182, 183

Bagous, 113, 367.

ahrein, 408,

Balacrus, 6, 104, 142, 164, 168, 212, 252
Balkan, 10.

Balk, 187.

Baniylis, 18

arses, 155, 183, 185,193

Baring, 16, 242,375, 421.

Baryaxcs, 365,

arzanes, 216,

Batis, 135-139.

Bazi, 256, 257,259,

Beas River, 06,

Beghram, 197

eith-Shemesh, 141.

Beloochistn, 155, 196, 350,384

pelus, 171,172,401, $02. 413.

Bendes, 205.

Beroea, 151

Béssus, 155, 182-185, 191-202, 206,216,217, 263, 334
Bianor, 107.

Bistancs 13, 180

Bithynia, 77, 108

Bithynian Thracian, 77,

ocdtarchs, 28

ocd, 26, 30.

Bospanis, 277

Bota, 13,98.

Boupares, 13.

Brachmans, 327, 343

Branchidae, 148, 204.

Brs0, 163.

Britain, 370.

Bromius, 268

drowne, 14,

Pruttinns 152. 399.


Page 223, Instance 1, Class: Text
Biicéphalas, 288, 296, 297.

Bmbdus, 156, 334

Bisirs, 14S.

Byblus, 15,

Cab, 247.

Cadiz, 108, 118, 203, 309

Codméa, 25, 27, 30, 33.

Caden, 117

Codisians, 155, 161, 180-

Cres, 123, 278, 303,395,

Caicus, 275,276,

Calanus, 149, 372-374, 405, 422

Calas, 4, 50,5, 9, 84

Callas, 334.

Callicratidas, 190

Callnes, 389,

Callipolis, 88

Callisthénes, 95, 101, 102, 146,148, 22-232, 247,421,427.
Cambs, 140,141,226, 364

Cansbus, 142, 420

Captor, 10.

Cappadocia and Ceppadocians, 2, 48,84, 186, 161, 305,308.
Caras, 15, 197,210, 24, 215, 27.

Carchadon, 313,390.

Cardats, 95

Cardia, 305

Cardichi, 134,122.

Caria and Carians, 58,65, 66, 76, 88,155, 161, 164, 186, 308, 318, 414
Cari, 186

Carmania, 344, 360-364, 387,

Carthage, 108, 16 133, 309,313, 370, 39, 399, 406
Casdim, 172

Caspian Gates, 179, 182,308, 387

Caspian Sea, 155, 161, 187, 199, 202,254, 256,274, 367, 400, 401
Cassander, 19, 76, 88, 162, 242, 421.

Castor, 219.

Catanes, 246, 242.

Cathacans, 301

Cathaia 310.

Catullus, 198

Caucasus, 197-199, 202, 24,247, 266-275, 284, 308, 387
Counus, 83

Caster, 275,226, 309.

Celacnac, 76

Celis, 14, 18

Cénaan, 107 108.

Ceramics, 173,

Cercinitis Lake, 32.

Céreth, 110

Ceth, 109

Chabor, 401.


Page 224, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Chacronéa, 8, 144, 384.

‘Chalcedonians, 191

Chales, 81

‘Chaldacans, 172, 401-403, 412.

‘Chandragupta, 275,

(Chares, 38,38, 02,125, 144,

(Chariles, 231

‘Charidenns, 35,

Chem, 318.

‘Chena, 298,

Chiddekel, 153.

‘Chios, 78,109,143, 144.

‘Choaspes, 172

‘Choes, 249.

‘Chorasmians, 234, 273, 387

(Chorignss, 244-246,

Chrysippus,

Cicero, 1, 84, 104, 232,368, $01,

Cilicia, 85,87, 88,91, 104, 153, 173,186, 197, 273, 391.

Ciliian Gates, 84

Cilla, 347

Cimon, 22

Citium, 109.

Citi, 109.

‘Clazoménae, 407

(Cleander, 67, 25,125,163, 194, 361.

‘Clearehus, 39, 102,182,191, 227

‘Cleomnes, 149, 415,416, $20.

Cleon, 24.

‘Cleopatra, 151, 152

‘Cheops, 256,

‘Cttarchus, 335.

Cts, son of Bardylis, 18-25,

‘Cus, son of Dropidas, 47, 162, 11, 195, 218-221, 242, 283, 235, 237, 248.

Cais, 88

Cocte-Syria, 110, 15, 158,161, 308, 385,

‘Coemus, 24,43, 67,77. 95,131, 133, 162, 162,177, 182, 190, 235, 236-239, 250, 256,257,259,
280,284,291, 299, 300, 11-314, 318, 427.

‘Cocranus, 151. 164

Colchians, 234,304.

Colénae, 40.

‘Comédse Mountains, 202

‘Companions, 23, et passim

(Cén5n, 224.

‘Cophacus, 259.

‘Cophen, 114, 180, 379.

‘Cophén River, 247,265.

Core, 18,

Corinth, 2, 42,72, 110,334

Conus, 53.

(Cis, 88, 109, 164, 353.

Cossacans, 398, 414


Page 225, Instance 0, Class: Text
I Ta Ss ee as ee ee el res ns ws ee
2S, 253,259, 263, 284, 289, 293, 297, 300,319,321, 322,324,387, 341M, 301, 375,
sor

Creté and Cretan, $8, 98, 108, 110

Crstheus, 354

Crtodsmus, 333.

Croesus, 302.

Ceesias, 3,271.

Conaxe, 4, 102, 168.

Carium, 129.

Curtus, 7,85, 96,102, 114, 116, 139, 165,203, 204, 219, 252,241, 258,333, 335,358, 361,
419,428

Cush, 272, 398.

Cybel, 275

Cyl, 80, 108,

Cyeinus, 85.

C3mé, 21.

Cyna, 19.

Cyprus and Cyprians, $5, 108,109,120, 125-129, 132,150,318.

Cree, 198, 385.

Cyreschita, 207.

Cyropotis, 206, 208, 209.

Crus the Elder, 84, 178, 196, 207, 208, 27, 236,272,385, 364, 367, 369

Crus the Younger, 39, 2, 76, 85, 2, 102

Cyrus, camp of, 4,

Cythnus, 81.

Daans, 161,198, 199,284.

Dacians, 1.

Dacdilus, 09,

Dihae, 161

Damascus, 103, 104, 114,242.

Dammasek, 103.

Dandamis, 37, 372

Daniel, 172,307.

Danube, 2, 15, 220.

Darius, 41, 48, 53, 59, 69, 79, $0, 90-114, 120,134,135, 140, 152-171, 179-187, 201,211,220, 4.

Dascylium, 50

Datames, 80, SL

Dataphernes, 200-202.

David, LL, 186.

Deimichus, 273

Deinarchus, 113

Delta, 270, 40, 343.

Delphi, 228

Demis, 34.

Desmarais, 47.

Deméphon, 420.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The Project Gutenberg eBook of Anabasis of Alexander, by Arrian_/Form\page_225instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The Project Gutenberg eBook of Anabasis of Alexander, by Arrian_/Form\page_227instance0.jpg]

Page 228, Instance 0, Class: Text
Geryonés, 118, 119.

‘Gesenits LIT.

Getae, LET.

Gibbon, 217.

Gira, Straits of, LIS, 203, 309,
ize, LL

Glaucias, 19-25, 162, 396
Glaucippus, $5.

Glaueus, 171,

Glauganicians, 297

Glausians, 297

Gordium, 75, 72,82

Gordius, $2.

Gordjacans, 14.

Gorgias, 235, 248, 284,

Gorgons, 145.

Gough, 280.

Giraikos, 308.

Granfous, 41-49, 150, 220, 334.
Grecian Sea, 134,266.
Greece, 81, $8, 93, 108, 112, 120,142,148, 173, 189, 234,391, 394, 396, 406, 414, 20,
Greeks, passin.

Gronovius, 263.
Grote, 9, 16, 96, 103, 162, 35.
‘Giracans, 249,253.

Garacus River, 253.

Hadrian, 1,2

Haemus, 10, 1.

Halicarnassus, 59-65, 69, 88, 109,110, 186.
Hays, 84

Hamilear, 309.

Hamley, 136.

Hannibal, 286.

Hanno, 309.

Hardinge, 280.

Harmédis, 173, 224, 406
Hagplus, 131, 152, 181, 379, 392
Hebras, 37

Hecataeus, LL8, 275,276
Hecatommnus, 65

Hector, 139

Hegelochus, 42, 80, 143, 144,162
Hegémon, 206

Hegésias, 130,423.
Hegésistatus, 53,

Hlopolis, 141,

Hellanieus, 62.

Hellénes, 308,383

Hellespont, 36, 38, 234, 277, 307, 384, 306.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The Project Gutenberg eBook of Anabasis of Alexander, by Arrian_/Form\page_229instance0.jpg]

Page 229, Instance 1, Class: Text
392, 3951307, 398, 02,404,415, 416°

Hera 110

Heracles, son of Alexander, 242,421.

Heracles o Hercules, 17, 38, 89, 104 117-119, 121, 133, 13, 148, 150,217, 224-297, 258,263,
262,310,320, 394

Heracdn, 361, 302

Heraclides, 13, 162, 101,400. =

Hercules, Pillars of, 118,203, 300,301

Hermolais, 230, 232,

Hemstus, 40

Herm, 50, 275, 276

Herodotus, 14,15, $8, 59, 108, LIS, 141, 190,202, 218,226, 240, 244, 270, 271, 274.277, 286,
‘31, 358,389, 392-394, 402,415,

Heroménes, 6.

Heraopalis, 149, 410.

Heropythus, 52.

Herostritus, 32

Hesychius, 95

Hidriews, 65, 6,

Higro, 39, 409, 410.

Himalayas, 271,

Hindu-Koosh, 197, 202, 263,

Hindustan, 263.

Hipparchus, 2.

Hippias, 102, 224

Hippocrates, 88

Hippolt, 304

Hira, 400

Histanes, 329.

Hodu, 263

Homa, 265.

Homer, 39, 45, 56, 116, 121, 141, 167,175, 208,218, 260, 276, 285,286,291, 309, 318,331,
301, dle

Humboldt, 108.

Hydames, 37.

Hydaspes, 220, 271, 234, 270-288, 203, 207, 08, 16324, 339, 374, 38.

Hydrabtes, 271,274, 30, 30, 308,315, 324, 326, 328, 336, 339, 387.

Hypama, 67,

Hypaspsts, 21, er passin.

Hyperides, 35

Hyphisis, 24,271, 274, 306, 308, 300, 315, 330,374,387.

Hyreania and Hyreanians, 18S, 61, 181 18S, 187, 188, 191,199, 274,297, 308, 309, 361, 382,
0.

Hyreanian Sea, 202,274, 308, 309, 400

Hystaspes, 379.

lacchus, LIS, 268

lapygian Cape, 370

lassians, 58.

lazygians, |4.


Page 230, Instance 0, Class: Text
chthyophigi, 384, 363.

acan Mountains, 40,50.

lum, 37, 38,

iyria and lyrians, 9, 19,93, 310,383, 406,
dia, 44, 247, 258-349, 335, 60, 400, 406, 408,
nica, the, 3,273, 277, 343.

indians, 155, 156, 161,164, 167, 168,193, 197, 199, 254, 248-349, 370-373, 385,
dian Gull, 309

dus, 156, 193, 248, 258-281, 308, 317-320, 339-345, 364, 369,374,387.
ols, 2.

ollas, 421.

jn, 308,385,425,

onian Gull, 18.

nia and Tonians, 40, 53, $4 186, 307,363,385,
phicrites, 66,113,140.

sus, 53, 76, 405,

sis, 142, 420.

sménias, 224

pocrates, 395,

ssus, 90-104, 140, 157,248, 334

ster, 12-17, 200, 276, 272

sthmus, 334 371

aly, 152,300.

viea, 108

Javan, 307,385,

jexartes, 198, 202,247, 24, 401

jelalabad, 265.

jlum, 270

Jerome, 109, 13.

jerasalem, 135,

Josephus, 1, 21, 109, 124.

lian, 85, 103, 106,385.

liopois, 76,

jupiter Ammon, 14.

justice, 222.

justin 9, 31,103, 421.

Kem, 216

chorasan, 155, 101

abacus, LS

acedaeionians, 9,26, 32, 49, 113,115, 120, 150,173, 190, 27, 272
ad, 54, 56, 5.

ahore, 280,301

aus, 118

Lampsacus, 40

angarss, 19,20.

-anieg, 221


Page 231, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Lénacus, 268.
Leon, 119.
Lednndtus, 105, 149, 228,245, 249, 252, 253, 300-934, MMS, M8, 351,363, 377
Leatychides, 54
Lesbos, 78, 108,143, 144,
Leveta, 32.
Leuge, 98
Liber, 268
Libya, 144,145, 149, 203, 308,309, 313, 262,399,426.
Liby-Phoenicians, 406,
Liddell and Scot, 127,278
Livy, 167, 210,253, 349, 400, 424
Lubin, 144.
{canians, 152,399.
Lacan, 4,6 416,427
culls,
Lud, 186.
Lyacus, 268
{cia and Lycians, 62,68, 80, 125,151, 308
Lida, 138,
jeomedes, 72.
Letigus, 35.
Lous Rive, 154, 169,
[Lala and Lyians, 40, SO, $1,152, 186, 308,385,414
yginas, 12
Lysander, 32.
Lysanias, 2.
Lysias, 395
Lsimichus, $3, 26, 285, 205, 363,373,405
Lysippus, 48
Macedonia, 8, 9 13 18, 48,49, 6, 77, 98, 112, 125, 162,173, 174, 239, 253,308,310, 344, 383,
301,405.
Macedonians, passim.
Madi 232
Macander, 7,275, 276
Macots, Lake, 202, 203, 274, 300
Magarsus, $2
Magi, 366, 367,389.
Magnesia, 58, 16S.
“Mababunn Mount, 258,259.
Malea, 78.
Mallians, 301, 322, 324-338, 338, 339,
Mallus, 89, 135,
Mandanis, 37.
Mantinéa, 52.
Maracanda, 202, 210,213, 15,235, 236
Maratus, 1,115.
Marcomann, 1.
Mardians, 161, 164 207.
Maretis, Lake, 142.
Mariam, 11.


Page 232, Instance 0, Class: Text
larmarians, 67

larmarca, 145.

larnda, 37

ars, 45,

arta, 8.

lassaga, 254-256, 259

fassigéta, 2,4, 236-238,

lausslus, 65,

favaces, 155,

lazaces, 140, LAL, 18S.

fazaeus, 152. 156, 168, 171,239, 379, 404

fazarus, 173.

fia and Medes, 91,125, 155, 161, 171,179, 180, 192,194, 239, 272, 273,308,365, 374, 387,
303

fediterranean, 275, 276, 318, 369,417

fdius, 418-422,

fgalopalis, 173

legarcus, 144

legiris, 152.

fegasthénes, 3, 4,273,274, 385, 272, 427

elamnidas, 216,

elas River, 32.

feleager, 17, 44,59, 67,77, 95, 162, 176, 235, 238, 248, 284, 284,

felkath 117

clos, 32

femndn, 41,46, 51,59, 64, 78, 79,242,

femphis, 14, 142,148, 150,405, 423.

fenandet, 109, 124, 152.414, $17.

fenedémus, 210,215.

fenelais, 276.

fends, 104, 141,173, 181,217.

fenldas, 148, 16S, 165, 169, 194, 39, 414, 20,

feniscus, 112.

tenn, 110, 197,

lenoctius, 38

isn0p, 11.

fentor, $1, 305.

eres, 205.

f0s Mountain, 266, 268,

fesopotamia, 153, 156, 161,172, 308, 380,385,

ctllus, 48.

fethymmna, 78,143

ticcalus, 407

ticbn, 394

ida, 82.

lets and Milesins, 53-88, 149, 204,275, 384, 385,

yas, 67.

nds, 110,228,425,

ithrastes, 156.

ihridates, 37,48.

lithrines, 50, 171.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The Project Gutenberg eBook of Anabasis of Alexander, by Arrian_/Form\page_232instance1.jpg]

Page 233, Instance 0, Class: Text
Mithrobizancs, 48,

Mitylen, 78, 79, 80, 14,

Mitsraim, 276.

Moers, 344

Moerocles, 35

Monimus, 190,

Moola, 25.

Moph, 41

Muses, 36.

Musicanus, 51-343,

Mycale, $4.57, 278

Myegnus, 118.

Mylasa, 59,61.

Myndus, $2, 60, 88

Myriandrs, 90, 92.

Mjsia, 275,

Nabarzanes, 182, 185,188

Naueritis, 149.

Nautaca, 199, 239.

Nearchus, 3,4, 151, 217, 263, 223, 319,324, 386, 337, 48, 49, 355, 363, 368, 372, 224, 35,
327, 46,410, 18, 419,427

Nebuchadnezza, 17.

Necho, 108,309,

Negropont,

Neilos, 141.

Neiloxénus, 197.

Neoptolemus, 38,61, 138, 226

Népos, 308

Nereis, 38, 320.

Nervi

Nessus River, 10

Nicaea, 247, 296, 316,

Nicindr, 16, $3, 54,56, 95, 162, 184, 192,247,259,

Nias, 5,

Nicomedia, 1 2.

Nicbpalis, 2

Nicostritus, 104

Nile, 24,140,141, 144, 149,150, 203, 270,276, 317, 318

Nimod, 11

Niphites, 40,48

Nisacan Plain, 373, 393.

Nomad Libyans or Numidians, 203, 369,

Nonacis, 421

Noph, 141.

Nisa, 265-268, 310, 319.

Ocean, 320,

Ochus, 112,113, 116,375.

Ocondobates, 155.

Odrysians, 164,


Page 234, Instance 0, Class: Text
Olympias, $8, 151,152,223, 318, 391, 392,421.
Omares, 48

Ombrion, 149.

Omphis, 247

On, 1d

Onchests, 26

Onésicritus, 319, 365, 377,410,427.
Onomas, 150.

Opis, 381

Ora, 256-259, 351, 385, 363, 372
Orbelas Mountain, 10,

Orchoménus, 34.

Ordanes, 361.

Orestis, 363.

Ortans, 350-352, 377,387.
Ormaed, 283

Orobats, 259.

Orontes, 156.

Orontobates, 4, 66, 88,

Orpheus, 36

Orxines, 368,367

Oscius, 12

Ossadians, 340.

Otanes, 185

Ovid, 15, 41, 234

Oxathres, 153,180, 374

Oxiana Palus, 401

Oxodates, 182,239,

Oxyares, 109, 239-245, 340, 41,205, 370,
Oxyeanus, 342

Oxyeiacians, 301, 322,333,338
Ozines, 361.

Paddan-Aram, 156, 308

Pactica, 37.

Paconians, 18 43, 45, 93, 97, 184 163, 165
Palactyrs, 19, 122

Palestine, 110,138, 136,388,
Pallacdpas River, 411,412.
Pamphia, 67, 71,197, 273, 308.
Pandosia, 152

Panegorus, 40

Pangaean Mountain, 37,383.
Pantalebn, 148.

Pantordanus, 98,

Paphlagonia and Paphlagonians, 84,308, 308.
Paraetacac, 180,244,246
Paractonium, 145,

Paralus, 128, 150

Parapamisadae, 247, 269, 283, 340, 358
Parapamisus, 197,220, 271, 273.
Paras, 364,


Page 235, Instance 0, Class: Text
Parménio, 12, 37, 41-43, 30, 53, 54, 67, 69, 20, 26, 84, $6, 82, 25, 26, 104, 106, 114, 135, 157-
159, 168,168,169, 176, 198, 181, 194-196, 232,361.

Paron, 171.

Parthia and Parthians, 15S, 161, 168, 181,182, 185, 191,197,216, 273, 361, 378, 387

Pasargidae, 178, 364-369, 72,406,

Pasicres, 129.

Pasitgris, 174, 379.

Patla and Patalians, 243-345, 348, 349,

Patra, 6.

Patdelus, 38, 02

Paul, St, 110

Pausanias, 8,51, 68,217.

Pausippus, 190.

Pethagsras, 404,405.

Pethon son of Sosicles, 236,237

Pethon, son of Agenor, 236, 324-328, M1, 43, 244, 348,420.

Pethon, son of Crates, 256, 363.

Pelagon, 52.

Pelesheth and Pelishtim, 135.

Pena, 26.

Pelum, 20,

Pella, 8.20, 148, 363,

Pelopidas, 224, 34.

Peloponnésus, 9, 51,67, 81,96, 125,150, 310, 384

Pelsium, 140,141,138,

Péncius, 216

Pérath, 107.

Perce, 40.

Pendiceas, 17, 0, 24,28, 29.43, 52 6 95, 162, 176, 235, 244, 248, 259, 264, 284, 285,302,
1325, 326, 329, 330,338, M0, 363, 325, 408.

Penga and Pergaéans, 70-73,

Perinthus, 12.

Perpolus, 125.

Perplis, the, 4

Peroedas, 98

Persepolis, 178, 179,195,367, 369.

Perseus, 143, 20)

Persian Gates, 126.

Persian Sea or Gulf, 309, 347, 364, 369, 379, 380,381,400, 406, 10.

Persians, 42-58 e passin,

Persis, 155,173,174, 177, 178, 185, 08, 363-368, 372,378, $14.

Pens, 40, 48,

Petisis, 148,

Peucé, 12,270,

Pevcela, 248.

Peucelabis, 248, 259.

Peuecstas, 149, 330-335, 363,367,368, 377, 378, 414,415,417, $20.

Pharasmanes, 234

Pharismanes, 36.

Phamabizus, 29-81, 109, 140-144, 189.

Pharmicts, 4.


Page 236, Instance 1, Class: Text
Phasélis, 68, 70.

Phasians, 304. cs

Philzmon, 88,

Philp, 289

Philip of Macedon, 6-9, 18, 20, 21, 24,22, 24, 36, 68, 112, 113, 151, 219,229, 305, 383, 384

Philp, som of Amynts, 43

Philip, son of Machatas, 17 4, 279,298,319, 321, 324, 339, 340,360,

Philip, son of Menelas, 4, 163,192.

Philip the Physician, 85, $6.

Philipp, 10.12.

Philistines, 110,135, 136.

Philotas, som of Casi, 230.

Phila, son of Parmenio, 2, 13,21, 24,43, ST, 62,86, 82, 162, 177, 193-196, 200, 224, 232,
222.

Philoxénus, 11, 172,414, 417.

Pisin, 14.

Phocians, 30, 384,

Phin, 35.

Phocnicia and Phoenicians, $5, 81, 90, 107, 108 LLL 1L6, 118,120, 125-127, 132,136, 14 180,

Photius, 4,271, 382,427

Phradasmencs, 379.

Phrasuorts, 178, 364

Phrataphernes, 155, 188, 197,216, 239, 298, 362,329.

Phrygia, 40,44, 48,65, 67, 73, 26, 77, 82 10S, 186, 308,385,

Pieris, 36.

Pimprama, 301

Pine, 67.

Pindrus, 92,95, 108.

Pindar, 34, 39 177, 309,334

Pisidia and Pisidians, 67, 68, 23-75,

Pixsdarus, 66.

Platacac and Platacans, 30, 32, 138

Plato, 181,286.

Plats, 108,

Pleiades, 49, 411

Pliny, 271, 272,277, 313, 340, 349, 369,422.

Plutarch, 3 6,27, 33-35, 37,39, $9, 92,94, 106, 137,268, 305,358, 372,396, 417, 418,421,
24

Paytagimas, 126, 129

Polemo, 148, 149, 195,

Polyaenus, 358

Polybius, 98, 101, 102,203, 231, 289, 346, 364.

Polydimas, [94

Polydectés, 145.

Polydeuces or Pollux, 219.

Polydor, 118.

Polyeuctus, 35.

Polysperchon, 104, 162, 228, 238, 242,246, 253,283,324, 391,421.

Polytimetus, 213,216

Pomncionolis. £8.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The Project Gutenberg eBook of Anabasis of Alexander, by Arrian_/Form\page_236instance2.jpg]

Page 239, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Sibyrtius, 275, 360.
Sicily, 108, 370.
Side,
Sidon, 108,111 116, 125-127
Signet
Sigon, LLL
Signum, 78
Simmiss, 162,167,195,
Sin, 140
Sindbu, 263
Sindimana, 342, 43.
Sindpe and Sinopeans, 190, 371
Sintenis, 209, 220, 257, 361.
Siphnus, Sl, 109
Sisicotus, 263,298
Sisines, 69,329.
Sisygambis, 105, 167,178.
Sitcenians, 156, 161.
Sitales, 25, 87, 98, 164, 194, 361
Siva, 144
Smerdis, 364
Smyrna, 275, 407,
Sochi, 89
Séerites, 0, 43,45.
Sogdian Rock, 239-241
Sogdiana and Sogdianians 18S, 199-206, 215, 235-240, 284, 78,
Soadians, 341
Soli, 88-90, 104, 125, 410.
Solomon, 102
Solon, 402
Sopeithes, 319.
Sopois, 13, 162, 289.
Sostrts, 250
Spain, 108, 18.
Spar, 32.39
Sphines, 372
Spitaces, 294
Spitamenes, 199-202, 209, 213-215, 236-239, 375.
Spithridates, 40,47, 48, 3.
Spares, 8, 409.
Stamenes, 259,
Stasanor, 200,216, 289, 361,362, 364.
Sutra, 48,135, 242,243
Siboetis, 188.
Swabo, 15,58, 28,108,139, 141, 202,269, 274, 319, 356,371, 393, 395, 02, 420.
Stite, 111, 116
Suymon, 32.
Symphaca, 26
Siyx, 21.
‘Suctonius Paulinus, 369.


Page 240, Instance 0, Class: Text
Susia, 19,

Susiana and Susianians, 15S, 161,173, 174, 308, 363, 364, 379,398
Sutled), 332.

Syenniss, $8.

Sylium, 72

Syria Palestine, 135.

Syria and Syrians, 87,91, 140, 152, 156,173,285, 308, 380, 407
Syrian Gates, 87,89, 91,98

Syemus, 12,17

Syepha, 5.

Tacitus, 110

Taendrum, 110,

Tanais, 198,202,203, 205, 209-211, 274,308, 387.
Tapuria and Tapurians, 16S, 161, 187, 188,239,414
Tarentines, 152.

Tarsish, 118

Tarsus, 85,82, 89,90.

Tarsus, 118

Taulantians, 19-22, 28.

Tauriscus, 131

Tauron, 287, 201

Taurus, 88,181,192, 273-275

Taxtl, 270,279, 280,37.

Taxes, 247,248, 270, 279, 280, 294, 298, 360,372.
Tele-Kebir, 16.

Telépnus, 354

Telmissus, 36, 6, 82

Veménus, 217

Tempe, 216

Tenddus, 80, $1, 183.

Temes, 116.

Teredon, 4.

Teroltes, 41

Teméssus, 13-75

Thalestrs, 394,

Tammuz, 116

Thapsicus, 21, 107,181,152, 406,

Thara, 183

Thebes and Thebans, 25-34, 115,221, 265, 310, 378, 384
Theodectes, 8.

Thorns, 242.

Theophrastus, 232

Théra, 88,198

Thermopfiac, 26


Page 241, Instance 1, Class: Text
Thrace and Thractans, 9-12, 15, 34, 53, 34, 69, 71, 75, $7, 93, 98, 108, 112, 148, 164, 208, 310,
340, 383,391, 406,
‘Thriambus, 362.
‘Teiides, 12 45, 85, 99, 298, 335.
‘Thymondas, 80,107
“Tbarénes, 18.
“Tamacus, 153, 223.
‘Timagenes, 335,
‘Timander, 63.
“Timolais, 25,
‘Tiphsach, 107
‘Tiryns, 310,
“Trymthis, 10.
‘Tssaphemes, 191.
“Thepolemus, 185, 360.
“Tmalus, Mount, 265
“obit, 182
“Tralles, 32, 68
“Traps, 394
“Trebizond, 2.
“Triballians, 9-17, 310,383
“Triopium, 83,
“ripols, 107,108
“Troezin, 59.
‘Troy, 332
‘sidon, 116.
‘or, 117
‘Tubal, U2
“Tylus Island, 409.
‘Tyndareus, 219,
“Tyre, 108, 108, 116-138, 150,285.
‘Tyriaspes, 247, 298, 340,
‘Tyeenians, 299
Uli, 322
Usinas, 408
Usians, 185, 161, 124,128,207, 387, 308
Vergil, $4,167, 186, 310,318, 01
Vitel, 71.
Winer, 413.
Xanthippus, $4
Xanthus, 62
Xathrians, 340
Xenophon, 1, 32, 42, 84, 93, 94, 96, 9,102, 150, 101, 224, 225,227,244, 304, 425,
erxés, 37,102,171, 173, 204,226, 227, 277, 364,396,403, 406.
Yeu Suvh. 155


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The Project Gutenberg eBook of Anabasis of Alexander, by Arrian_/Form\page_241instance2.jpg]

Page 242, Instance 0, Class: Text
Zelia, 41, 50.

Zesaspes, 3.

“Zeus, 6,38, $1, 82,89, 104, 145, 148,219, 222,243, 266,371,425.

iobetis, 18,

Zoroaster, 367.

Butler & Tanner, The Selwood Printing Works, Frome, and London.
‘"** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ANABASIS OF
ALEXANDER ***
Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will be renamed.
Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright law means that
‘no one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation (and you!)
‘can copy and distribute it in the United States without permission and without paying
‘copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this
license, apply to copying and distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG" concept and tradematk, Project Gutenberg is a
registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by
following the terms ofthe trademark license, including paying royalties for use of the
Project Gutenberg trademark. Ifyou do not charge anything for copies of this eBook,
‘complying with the trademark license is very easy. You may use this Book for nearly
any purpose such as ereation of derivative works, reports, performances and research.
Project Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away —you may do
practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected by U.S.
‘copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.
START: FULL LICENSE
‘THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK.

‘To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free distribution of
electronic works, by using or distributing this work (or any other work associated in
any way with the phrase “Project Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms
‘of the Full Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
‘www gutenberg.org/license


Page 242, Instance 1, Class: Text
START: FULL LICENSE
‘THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK.
‘To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free distribution of
electronic works, by using or distributing this work (or any other work associated in
any way with the phrase “Project Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms
‘of the Full Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
\www.gutenberg.orglicense,
Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works
1A. By reading or using any part ofthis Project Gutenberg™ electronic work, you
indicate that you have read, understand, agree to and accept all the terms of this license


Page 243, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘by ail the terme of this agreement, you must Conse using and return or Cestroy all
copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your possession. Ifyou paid a fee
for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do
‘not agree to be bound by the terms ofthis agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
‘person oF entity to whom you paid the fee asset forth in paragraph LE,

LLB. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be used on or
associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, There area few things that you ean do with most Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works even without complying withthe full tems of this
agreement, See paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the tems of this agreement and help
preserve fre future access to Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. See paragraph ILE
below.
LLC. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the Foundation” or
PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright inthe collection of Project Gutenberg™
‘electronic works. Neatly all the individual works in the collection are in the public
domain in the United States. Ifan individual work is unprotected by copyright aw in
the United States and you are located in the United States, we do not claim a right to
prevent you from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
‘works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg are removed,
Of course, we hope that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of
‘promoting free access to electronic works by fieely sharing Project Gutenberg™ works
in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg™
‘name associated with the work. You can easily comply withthe terms ofthis agreement
bby keeping this work inthe same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™
License when you share it without charge with others.
LD. The copyright laws ofthe place where you are located also govern what you can
do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change. If
you are outside the United States, check the laws of your country in addition to the
Terms of this agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright
status of any work in any country other than the United States.
LE. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
LE.L The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate access to, the
full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear prominently whenever any copy of
Project Gutenberg work (any work on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg”
appears, or with which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed,
displayed, performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

‘This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other parts ofthe world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

‘whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of

the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at

wiewgltenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you will

have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using

‘this eBook.


Page 244, Instance 0, Class: Text
protected by U.S. copyright law (does not contain a notice indicating that itis posted
‘with permission ofthe copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to
anyone in the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project Gutenberg”
associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply either with the
requirements of paragraphs 1.E.| through 1.E.7 or ebtain permission for the use of the
‘work and the Project Gutenberg™ trademark as set forth in paragraphs LLE.8 or LE.
1LE.3. Ian individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted with the
permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution must comply with both
paragraphs I.E.I through 1LE.7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright,
holder. Additional terms will be linked tothe Project Gutenberg™ License forall
‘works posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this
work
LEA, Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™ License terms
from this work, or any files containing a part of this work or any other work associated
‘with Project Gutenlberg™,
LES. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute tis electronic work, or
‘any part of this electronic work, without prominently displaying the sentence set forth
in paragraph LE. with active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License,
LE.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, compressed, marked
up, nonproprietary of proprietary form, including any word processing or hypertext
form. However, if you provide access to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™
‘work in a format other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used ia the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website (www-gutenberg.org), you
‘must, a no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a copy, a means of
exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its
original “Plain Vanilla ASCIT or other form. Any alternate format must include the full
Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1LE.1
LET. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, performing, copying or
distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works unless you comply with paragraph LE.S or
LES.
LLE.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing acess to oF
distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works provided that
+ You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from the use of Project
Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method You already use o calculate your
applicable taxes. The fee is owed to the owner ofthe Project Gutenberg™ trademark,
Dut he has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation, Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days
following each date on which you prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your
periodic tax returns. Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to
the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in Section
4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation.”
© You nrovide a fall refiand off any money naid hy a user whe notifies vou in writine for


Page 245, Instance 0, Class: Text
aS a a
a work of a replacement copy, ifa detect in the electronic work is discovered and
reported to you within 90 days of receipt of the work,

+ You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of Project
Gutenberg™ works
LE. Ifyou wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work
‘or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this agreement, you must
‘obtain permission in writing from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation,
the manager of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth
in Section 3 below.
LE
LLF.L. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable effort to
identity, do copyright research on, transcribe and prooftead works not protected by
USS. copyright law in ereating the Project Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these
clforts, Project Gutenberg™ electronic works, and the medium on which they may be
stored, may contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual property
infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a computer virus, or
‘computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.
L.F2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the
“Right of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph LLF.3, the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project Gutenbery™ trademark, and any
other party distributing a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement,
disclaim all liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees. YOU
AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT
‘THOSE PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH L.F3. YOU AGREE THAT THE
FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER.
‘THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT,
INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN
IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE,
LF3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect inthis electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive a refund
‘ofthe money (ifany) you paid for it by sending a written explanation to the person you
received the work from. If you received the work on a physical medium, you must
retur the medium with your written explanation, The person or entity that provided
Yyou with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund. Ifyou received the work electronically, the person or entity providing it to you
may choose to give you a second opportunity to receive the work electronically in lew
‘ofa refund. Ifthe second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in Writing
Without further opportunites to fix the problem.
LE. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth in paragraph 1.F.3,


Page 245, Instance 1, Class: Text
Project Gutenberg™ License. You must require such a user to return o destroy all
copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all
‘access o other copies of Project Gutenberg™ works.

+ You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any money paid for
a work ora replacement copy, ifa defect in the electronic work is discovered and
reported to you within 90 days of receipt of the work,

+ You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of Project
Gutenberg™ works
LE. Ifyou wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

‘or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this agreement, you must

‘obtain permission in writing from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation,

the manager of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth

in Section 3 below.


Page 246, Instance 0, Class: Text
III EES RI IIIS ERIE IS EEE NESS BIR IN EINES
LFS. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied warranties or the
‘exclusion of limitation of certain types of damages. Ifany disclaimer of limitation set
forth inthis agreement violates the law ofthe state applicable to this agreement, the
‘agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or imitation permitted
bby the applicable state law. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this
‘agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

LR, INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the trademark
‘owner, any agent or employee ofthe Foundation, anyone providing copies of Project,
Gutenberg™ electronic works in accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers
associated withthe production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirecly from any ofthe following which you do or cause to
‘occur: (a) distribution ofthis or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration,
modification, or additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (e) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the five distribution of electronic works in
formats readable by the widest varity of computers including obsolete, old, middle-
aged and new computers. It exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and
donations from people in all walks of ie.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the assistance they need are
critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s goals and ensuring that the Project
Gutenberg™ collection will remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001,
the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure and
‘permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future generations. To learn more about
the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations
‘can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at

www. gutenberg org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

‘The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit SO1(@)\(3)
‘educational corporation organized under the laws of the state of Mississippi and
‘eranted 1ax exempt status by the Internal Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN oF
federal tax identification number is 646221541. Contributions to the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible tothe full extent permitted
by US. federal laws and your state's laws,

‘The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City,
UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to date contact information ean
‘be found atthe Foundation’s website and official page at www:gutenberg.org/contact
Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary


Page 247, Instance 0, Class: Text
Eroject Maurenberg  Sepend’s upon and’ CanAOE SURVIVE Without widespread’ pubae
support and donations to arry out its mission of inereasing the number of public
domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed in machine-readable forma
accessible by the widest array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many stall
dlonatons (S110 85,000) are particulary important to maintaining tax exempt status
with the IRS
‘The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities and
charitable donations i all 50 states ofthe United States. Compliance requirements are
not uniform and it takes a considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet
and keep up with these requirements. We donot solicit donations in locations where we
have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND DONATIONS ot
determine the status of compliance for any particular stat visit
www gutenbersoreidonats
While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we have not met
the solicitation requsements, we know of no prohibition against accepting unsolicited
donations from donors in such states who approach us with offers to donate
International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any statements
‘concerning tx treatment of donations received from outside the United States. U.S.
laws alone swamp our small staf:

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation methods and
adresses. Donations ae accepted in @ numberof other ways including checks, online
payments and credit catd donations. To donate, please visit:

‘wow: gutenberg org/donate,

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic
works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator ofthe Project Gutenberg™ concept of a
library of electronic works that could be freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he
produced and distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
Volunteer suppor.

Projet Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created om several printed editions all of
which are confirmed as not protected by copyright i the US. unless a copyright notice
is included, Thus, we do not necessarily keep ebooks in compliance with any
particular paper edition

Most people stat at our website which has the main PG seatch facility

wun gulenbere.ore

“This website inches information about Project Gutenberg™, including how to make
donations tothe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, how to help produce
‘our new eBooks, and how to subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new’
‘eBooks.


