Page 1, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander the Great (356 BC - 323 BC) was only 20 years old when he was named the next King of
Macedonia after his father was assassinated, The following 11 years witnessed the evolution of an
‘outstanding leader who expanded his empire from Egypt to the Indian frontier. Despite success-
fully conquering much of the world, he was afflicted with a febrile illness at the age of 32, which he
battled for a mere 11 days before perishing, Ithas been almost 2,400 years since his death, but
the exact cause remains a mystery. Did he die of natural causes or at the hands of conspirators?
Numerous papers have been written about the illnesses suffered by Alexander, with the current
evidence revealing a healthy 32-year-old man who developed fever and acute abdominal pain with
rapid deterioration of his general condition leading to death within a short duration, We analyze
various theories and discuss possible etiologies that may have contributed to his tragic death,
Information was gathered from primary and secondary sources found through searching multipl
online academic databases and the University of Southern California (USC), University of Californi
Los Angeles (UCLA), and Harvard libraries. Unreliable sources and the unavailability of
Alexander's body for autopsy make reaching a definitive diagnosis an impossible task; however,
based on existing information, we presume that he most probably died of a neurological cause
due to acute necrotizing pancreatitis and encephalopathy secondary to peritonitis. Other potential
‘causes include fulminant hepatic failure, acute demyelinating neuropathy or Guillain Barre
Syndrome, and arsenic poisoning,

Keywords: history, cause of death, pancreatitis, encephalopathy, alexander the great


Page 1, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not
imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of
Health,

Leam more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Historical Perspective and Medical Maladies of Alexander the Great - PMC/Figure\page_1instance2.jpg]

Page 1, Instance 3, Class: Text
Historical Perspective and Medical Maladies of Alexander the Great
Monitring Estr: Alexander Muacevic and John R Alor
‘ShriK Misha, "2 adam Mengestab 88 and Shavsta Kosa’


Page 1, Instance 4, Class: Text
more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Historical Perspective and Medical Maladies of Alexander the Great - PMC/Image\page_1instance5.jpg]

Page 2, Instance 0, Class: Text
In July of 356 BG, in Pella, the ancient capital of Macedonia, King Philip I and one of his wives,
Olympias, Princess of Epirote, were blessed with a male child they named Alexander. From birth, it
‘was prophesied that he would go on to become one of the most powerful and successful comman-
ders in history (1)

Aristotle, a pupil of Plato and the most famous philosopher of his time, was appointed to train 13-
year-old Alexander in rhetoric, science, and philosophy. This training had a deep impact on the de-
velopment of Alexander's personality, helping him become a well-mannered, noble, and educated
young man [2].

In 338 BC, Alexander's father, King Phillip, married Eurydice, the niece of Attalus. At the wedding.
banquet, there was a violent altercation between Alexander and a drunken King Philip regarding
the lawful successor of the kingdom, which led to Alexander being exiled from Macedonia along-
side his birth mother Epirote [3]. After sic months, the tension between the father and son had.
calmed and Alexander was able to return. In June 336 BC, King Philip was assassinated at a the-
ater by Pausanias. Alexander, who was only 20 years old at the time, became the next King of
Macedonia following his father's death [2]

Macedonia was in poor shape when Alexander came to power: The neighboring Greek cities were
so dissatisfied with the young king being named that they began revolting. Alexander marched to
the Danube, overcame the opposition, and then marched towards Greece. Later, Alexander
crushed the revolt of Thebes in 335 BC. This incident senta clear message to the rest of the world
about the consequences of disobeying Alexander. Subsequently, the Athenians apologized and be-
came loyal to the Macedonians [2].

Right from the start, Alexander had a hunger for more power. His series of successful military
‘campaigns lasted the duration of his reign, amassing conquests from Gibraltar to Punjab. He in-
vaded Persia the following year in 334 BC, beating Darius III in two decisive battles (Figure 1),
With vietories in the cites of Granicus and Issus in modern-day Turkey, Alexander had conquered
the Persian Empire [3]. Next, he continued taking cites along the Mediterranean with siege victo-
res in Tyre and Gaza en route to Egypt, which had been under Persian rule at the time. Finally,
Alexander crowned himself Pharaoh and founded Alexandria in 331 BC on the North Coast along
the River Nile. Shortly afterward, in the city of Gaugamela in modern-day Iraq, Alexander would
again face Darius III, who had now amassed an army twice the size of Alexander's. Again,
Alexander would take a bold victory, forcing Darius to flee and abandon his army. Darius Il was,
then killed by his own troops [2].


Page 3, Instance 0, Class: Text
Itis believed that Limnus, a Macedonian, had plans to kill Alexander by hiring Nicomachus, but
Nicomachus refused to participate. Instead, Nicomachus revealed Limnus's plan to his brother,
and both the brothers went to Philotas, son of Parmenio, who was second in command of
Alexander's army and a loyal friend of Alexander's father [2]. The brothers tried to meet
Alexander, but Philotas kept avoiding them. The brothers were finally able to meet Alexander with
the assistance ofa third person and told him the entire story. Alexander wanted to examine all the
facts, but before he could, his soldiers reported that Limnus had killed himself prior to his arrest.
Alexander grew suspicious and executed both Philotas and his father, Parmenio. Soon after this in-
cident, during a party, Alexander had a heated argument with Cletus, one of his close friends. On
‘one occasion, Callisthenes was invited to speak about the Macedonians’ wrong deeds to learn
from them. Although Callisthenes was a powerful speaker, he had poor judgment. He said some-
thing offensive, which made Alexander furious. Some say that Alexander executed

Callisthenes while others believe he died in prison [3]

Alexander launched a final campaign in India in 327 BC. He found an ally in King Taxiles, who of
fered Alexander the use of his city of Taxila and any supplies needed if he could defeat King Porus:
[3]. Im 326 BC, Alexander defeated Porus’ army in a fierce battle on the Hydaspes River; Alexander
had been victorious over every army from Greece to India. Nevertheless, in doing so, he lost thou-
sands of his men and his favorite horse Bucephalus. Alexander's men, at this point, had no enthu-
slasm to continue on the warpath across the Ganges; they were depleted of energy and reluctant
to fight [4]. Seeing the state of his troops, Alexander finally decided to return


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Historical Perspective and Medical Maladies of Alexander the Great - PMC/Figure\page_3instance1.jpg]

Page 4, Instance 0, Class: Text
Ittook many weeks to cross the Indus River and almost another week to cross the Gedrosian_
desert. It was a painful experience, as thousands of his soldiers died in the desert. Out of the
120,000 infantry and 15,000 cavalries that Alexander took into India, only one in four returned
[4]. Furthermore, the invasion into India was a nightmare, as Alexander was hit with an arrow
‘hile taking over the Mallians, and several soldiers died in the Gedrosian desert. After hearing this
‘news, many people started revolting against Macedonian rule, but Alexander was not disappointed
and wanted to go on a new mission. This time, he proposed to sail around Africa to the Pillars of
Hercules in Gibraltar (4),

Review

Examination of the leading theories behind Alexander's mysterious death

Alexander died on June 11, 323 BG, inthe late afternoon at the palace of Nebuchadnezzar In
Babylon (Figure 2). The text of historians like Plutarch and Arrian (1st and 2nd century AD) is
based on the contents of the ‘Royal Journal’ a diary maintained by the court of Alexander the
Great [5]. The possible causes of his mysterious death are thoroughly listed below and grouped
into five categories: alcohol-induced, infectious disease, poisoning, internal organ damage, and
‘other complications.


Page 4, Instance 1, Class: Text
Ittook many weeks to cross the Indus River and almost another week to cross the Gedrosian_
desert. It was a painful experience, as thousands of his soldiers died in the desert. Out of the
120,000 infantry and 15,000 cavalries that Alexander took into India, only one in four returned
[4]. Furthermore, the invasion into India was a nightmare, as Alexander was hit with an arrow
‘hile taking over the Mallians, and several soldiers died in the Gedrosian desert. After hearing this
‘news, many people started revolting against Macedonian rule, but Alexander was not disappointed
and wanted to go on a new mission. This time, he proposed to sail around Africa to the Pillars of
Hercules in Gibraltar (4),


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Historical Perspective and Medical Maladies of Alexander the Great - PMC/Image\page_4instance2.jpg]

Page 5, Instance 0, Class: Text
Acute necrotizing pancreatitis with encephalopathy: Heavy alcohol intake can cause acute pancre-
atitis, Epigastric pain is the primary symptom that varies from mild to severe and is usually con-
stant. ICusually worsens when the patient is lying on his back with radiation to the flanks, back, or
both. The patient usually sits in bed leaning slightly forward to reduce the pain and discomfort.
Nausea and vomiting are present in more than two-thirds of patients. It can lead to sepsis, which
‘may lead to death. However, Alexander had transient, rather than constant, abdominal pain. His,
fluctuating fever increased over approximately 11 days, which is not characteristic of septic necro:
tizing pancreatitis, which usually has a very acute and rapid deterioration, quickly leading to death
[6]. The ascending weakness could possibly be due to Guillain Barre Syndrome, which is seen in
some cases of acute pancreatitis [7]

Delirium tremens: Alexander periodically consumed large quantities of alcohol in the form of
undiluted wine. During his illness, itis said that he opted to drink wine rather than water to
quench his thirst [2]. Based on the circumstances, this increased intake could be interpreted as the
cause of Alexander's demise; however, the most notable of Alexander's clinical symptoms, his
fever, cannot be explained by excessive alcohol intoxication or withdrawal. Furthermore, vomiting
‘which is commonly observed in cases of delirium tremens, was absent. There was also no record
of visual or tactile hallucinations. Therefore, Alexander did not meet the Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5) criteria for alcohol use disorder nor did he
have the DSM-S5 outlined symptoms for alcohol withdrawal and delirium tremens [8].

Alcoholic cirrhosis: Although Alexander's aforementioned penchant for drinking wine was well-
documented, there is no mention of cirrhosis symptoms in his records as ascites, jaundice, and
edema were not observed [2]-As noted above, it was believed that Alexander drank wine during.
his illness only to quench his thirst.

Infectious Disease

‘West Nile encephalitis: According to the John Marr and Charles Calisher theory, Alexander's death
{s attributed to complications of West Nile infection [9]. This theory is based on Plutarch’s descrip,
tion of the death of a flock of ravens as Alexander entered Babylon. West Nile virus was identified
in Israel in 2000 and in America in 1999, Birds are the amplifying hosts. Diseased birds manifest
various symptoms, including abnormal head and neck postures, ataxia, tremors, circling, disorien-
tation, and impaired vision [2]. Mortality rates in infected birds are very high. West Nile encephali
tis in humans usually manifests with mild fever, headache, body aches, and skin rash. High-grade
fever, disorientation, convulsions, muscle weakness, paralysis, and coma occur in only a small per-
centage of severe cases, and death is rare. Acute flaccid paralysis as a complication of West Nile
virus was noted in the United States in 1999 and later. In most cases, fever usually does not in-
crease or last more than two weeks. Mental confusion and muscle weakness are the initial symp-
toms, but Alexander was well-oriented and performed his daily routine in the inital phase of his
illness. Only later, during the course of his illness, he developed delirium and was unable to speak,
shortly after which he died [2]. Encephalitis itself became a more frequent complication of West
Nile virus fever in 1996, suggesting the recent appearance of a more pathogenic viral strain.
cc a a ai eee


Page 5, Instance 1, Class: Text
West Nile encephalitis: According to the John Marr and Charles Calisher theory, Alexander's death
{s attributed to complications of West Nile infection [2]. This theory is based on Plutarch’s descrip-
tion of the death of a flock of ravens as Alexander entered Babylon. West Nile virus was identified
in Israel in 2000 and in America in 1999, Birds are the amplifying hosts. Diseased birds manifest
various symptoms, including abnormal head and neck postures, ataxia, tremors, circling, disorien=
tation, and impaired vision [9]. Mortality rates in infected birds are very high. West Nile encephali-
tis in humans usually manifests with mild fever, headache, body aches, and skin rash. High-grade
fever, disorientation, convulsions, muscle weakness, paralysis, and coma occur in only a small per-
centage of severe cases, and death is rare. Acute flaccid paralysis as a complication of West Nile
virus was noted in the United States in 1999 and later. In most cases, fever usually does not in-
crease or last more than two weeks. Mental confusion and muscle weakness are the initial symp-
toms, but Alexander was well-oriented and performed his daily routine in the inital phase of his
illness. Only later, during the course of his illness, he developed delirium and was unable to speak,
shortly after which he died [2]. Encephalitis itself became a more frequent complication of West
Nile virus fever in 1996, suggesting the recent appearance of a more pathogenic viral strain.
However, serious neurological complications of West Nile virus only occur in less than 1% of pa


Page 6, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Typhoid fever: David Oldach was the first to propose that Alexander died of typhoid based on the
symptoms described by Plutarch [0]. It is suspected that Alexander may have been the victim of a
poorly treated or untreated case of typhoid fever, complicated by enteric perforation. This could
explain the sudden onset of a single episode of sharp abdominal pain. Furthermore, instances of
typhoid fever complicated by intestinal perforation with subsequent peritonitis have been de-
scribed in prior literature and can lead to acute demyelinating neuropathy or Guillain Barre
‘Syndrome [Z]. In typhoid fever, patients may present with delirium and splenomegaly in the end
stage of the disease. Patients with peritonitis can present with clammy perspiration, a fast, thready,
and weak pulse, and Hippocratic facies. Due to the lack of antibiotics, the course was almost invarl-
ably fatal during Alexander's period, Alexander's face in his final days was described as expres-
sionless; although bedridden, he was responsive enough for final farewells from his troops. The
apathetic facies and delirium known as typhoid state that can accompany typhoid fever fit this de-
scription [1]. However, Oldach said that he and others believe that Alexander's body's lack of de~
cay alter death is a legend created by those who survived him, likely a red herring in his case, and
should be discarded [10]. Alexander's immune system may have been weakened after he returned,
from India due to the severe stress that he was under. Typhoid fever is a bacterial infection caused
by Salmonella typhi and spreads by the fecal-oral route, Without antibiatis or other modern med-
‘cal therapies, itis often fatal. Risk exists to travelers visiting countries where it is endemic; t was
present in Babylon at the time [11]. Alexander traveled from Greece to the Indian frontier, which
had many endemic areas of Salmonella typhi. The typical course of typhoid fever includes fever,
loss of appetite, weakness, headache, constipation, and a typical, gradual, stepwise increase in
severity of fever during the first week There is a gradual increase in fever in the second week, and,
the skin becomes dry and hot. Inthe third week, fever continues to rise, and complications such as
delirium, stupor, intestinal perforation, peritonitis, and intestinal bleeding can occur. The main is-
ssue with the validity of this theory is the timing of symptoms, as intestinal perforation in patients
‘with typhoid fever often occurs in the third week or later:

Malaria: Alexander the Great bathed in the Euphrates River, which was infested by mosquitoes
that carry malaria. Some believe that he became sick due to a relapse of malaria he had contracted
in 336 BC. Malaria is caused by Plasmodium and transmitted by female Anopheles mosquitoes. He
traveled extensively in malaria-endemic areas, especially inthe final years of his life (12]."The
symptoms and signs include chills, headache, muscle ache, and fever without periodicity in the
first week. During the second week, chills followed by fever and sweating, a typical malarial parox-
ysm, are observed. After that, periodicity develops with intermittent or remittent fever. In between
the episodes, the patient is afebrile and is largely asymptomatic. The third week shows a gradual
decrease of malarial paroxysm, including the periodic fever: Patients typically improve to baseline
after this acute/subacute period. There are multiple factors supporting this theory. Some symp-
toms seen in cerebral malaria, such as fever, chills, sweating, prostration, muscle ache, progressive
‘weakness, stupor, decreased sensorium, and delirium, which can be seen with Plasmodium (P) fal-
ciparum, were present in Alexander’s condition [11]. Although acute abdominal pain is not a typi
cal feature of P.faleiparum infection, it can occur due to intestinal ischemia secondary to mesen-
teric arterial thrombosis, a complication known as Algid malaria, Therefore, cerebral malaria
‘might cause progressive neurological deterioration. Points against this theory are the absence of


Page 7, Instance 0, Class: Text
Iraq/present-day Babylon is due to P. vivax, in which abdominal pain is absent [12].

Influenza: There was no report of any death in Alexander's camp with similar signs and symp-
toms, so the chance of an isolated influenza case as a cause of his death is very remote,

Poisoning

Other theories of poisoning: Some believe he was poisoned. Various theories about who may have
poisoned him include unsatisfied lieutenants, his jealous wife Roxane, his Regent of Macedonia
Antipater, or his tacher Aristotle [5]. Some commonly known poisons from ancient times that in-
duced fever were ergot, mycotoxins, and alkaloids [13]. However, mycotoxins are unlikely as they
do not cause a sustained high fever:

‘Strychnine poisoning: Graham Phillips's theory is that Alexander's wife, Roxane, poisoned him
‘with a litle-known toxin of that period, which was extracted from the strychnine plant [14].
Strychnine grew only in the Indus Valley, so Roxane, being from Bactria located in present-day
Afghanistan, could have had knowledge of and access to It. Its taste can be easily masked with
‘wine. Signs and symptoms typically Include violent seizures, muscle stiffness, tachycardia, tachyp-
‘nea, apnea, and death. However, strychnine causes convulsions and muscle rigidity, both of which
‘were absent in Alexander’s record. A gradual rise in fever and delirium are atypical of strychnine
poisoning.

‘Toxicity of arsenical compounds: Plutarch mentions that Aristotle procured arsenic to poison
Alexander. Arsenical compounds were used to treat ulcers and syphilis. In toxic doses, extensive
‘transmural inflammation of enteric mucosa, severe abdominal pain, hemorrhagic gastroenteritis,
hepatic necrosis [15], pulmonary edema, hypotension, and shock may occur If these events are
not fatal, progressive neuropathy, which may be indistinguishable from Gulllain-Barre Syndrome,
‘may yet claim the patients life [7]. However, arsenical compounds usually do not cause a sus-
tained high fever.

Acute lead poisoning: Lead water pipes and lead-based pottery glazes used as storage for home-
‘made wine were responsible for epidemics of lead poisoning in ancient Rome [3]. Acute poisoning
can lead to severe colicky abdominal pain, fatigue, paralysis, and encephalopathy, but again, acute
lead poisoning does not explain the pattern of Alexander's fever:

Belladonna poisoning: Belladonna poisoning may produce vocal cord paralysis, which could ex-
plain why Alexander, although conscious, could not speak in his last days. However, this does not,
explain the nature of Alexander's fever.

Methanol poisoning: Methanol poisoning can produce peripheral neuropathy, which can lead to
generalized weakness. However, visual symptoms and vomiting, typical of methanol poisoning, are
not mentioned in Alexander's records.


Page 8, Instance 0, Class: Text
is violently narcotic and causes bradycardia. However, it does not explain the sudden onset of
acute abdominal pain and the fever pattern seen in Alexander's case.

Internal Organ Damage

Amoebic liver abscess rupture: Although the parasitic amoebic infection was present at that time,
1 vast majority of cases are sub-acute. Symptoms typically develop gradually over weeks to
‘months. Initial symptoms are non-specific, but in later stages, right upper quadrant pain becomes
the main symptom. Fever is usually present but is intermittent and rarely exceeds 40 degrees
Celsius. The patient is chronically ill with fever and abdominal tenderness in the right upper quad
rant. Rupture of an amoebic abscess can lead to sudden severe abdominal pain. However, the time
period and clinical features between the rupture of an abscess, presumably into the peritoneal
cavity, and Alexander's subsequent signs and symptoms point against a ruptured amoebic abscess
as the cause of his death [3]

Perforated peptic ulcer (duodenal/gastric): Prior to the 20th century, it was a disease of young
‘males that caused acute abdominal pain. However, most patients have a history of indigestion
prior to perforation. Therefore, the nature of Alexander's fever cannot be explained by this
theory.

Right lower lobe (RLL) pneumonia, recrudescent empyema, and pleurisy: Acute right upper quad-
rant pain can be produced by irritation of diaphragmatic pleura, Alexander had a history of acute
pneumonia in 333 BC and suffered a hemopneumothorax one year earlier due to an open chest
‘wound caused by an arrow [2]. However, the abrupt onset and severity of pain and the course of
his fever and illness are more suggestive of typhoid fever complicated by bowel perforation,

Acute cholecystitis /acute ascending cholangitis: Cases of cholecystitis are commonly characterized
by persistent abdominal pain in the right upper quadrant. While cases of cholangitis typically
present with right upper quadrant pain, fevers, and jaundice, collectively comprising what is
known as Charcot’s triad. Sepsis and delirium have also been observed in cholangitis cases, which
when presenting alongside Charcot's triad, comprise Reynold's pentad. Obstruction of the biliary
tree can occur due to stones or parasitic infection and is less likely due to tumors in patients
younger than 32 years old. However, gall bladder perforation is rare at age 32, and the absence of
jaundice in the records argues against this theory.

Other Complications

Carotid dissection: Andrew Williams and Robert Arnott suggest traumatic dissection of one of his
{internal carotid arteries six years prior to his death, in 329 BC in the Persian city of Cyropolis,
caused by being hitby a stone from a local slinger, which struck Alexander’s head/neck and led to
transient blindness and loss of speech [16]. Signs and symptoms usually include mild headache,


Page 8, Instance 1, Class: Text
Adverse drug reaction (white hellebore): Another theory is the possibility of repeated poisoning
‘with white hellebore [14]. The drug possesses strong purgative and anti-helminthic properties but
{s violently narcotic and causes bradycardia. However, it does not explain the sudden onset of
acute abdominal pain and the fever pattern seen in Alexander's case.


Page 9, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘As detailed above, Alexander the Great was the greatest warrior of his time. He died in the late
spring of 323 BC in Babylon, and the precise cause of his death has never been ascertained. Its
believed that he had many past and present illnesses, including post-traumatic transient cortical
blindness, malaria, toxin poisoning, and alcoholism, which may have contributed to his death. The
exact cause of his death is difficult to establish. Based on the literature review, the chain of events,
leading to his terminal illness seems to highlight undue stress from several sources, including de-
‘moralization due to his lack of command over his soldiers, which may have weakened his immune
system, making him more susceptible to illness. He had been drinking very heavily for a few days
before the onset of his illness. He suffered from acute abdominal pain followed by febrile illness,
delirium, dysarthria leading to coma, and death. In addition, we feel Alexander suffered from acute
necrotizing pancreatitis complicated by peritonitis leading to disseminated cerebritis as well as,
bacterial meningitis causing encephalopathy; this ultimately resulted in coma and his subsequent
death, Other possible causes include Guillain Barre syndrome and poisoning from arsenic com=
pounds, Unless Alexander the Great's remains are recovered, we may never be able to determine
the exact cause of his death with certainty.


Page 9, Instance 1, Class: Text
ropathy, transient unilateral blurring, or loss of vision. The patient may be initially asymptomatic
but can quickly develop symptoms due to embolization of thrombus atthe site of dissection after
an interval ofa few hours to days. However, this theory cannot explain the course of his fever and
illness. In addition, there is a lack of cardinal signs and symptoms in the long period between dis-
section and death, such as hemiparesis, hemisensory loss, headache, and Horner syndrome.
Complications of the congenital scoliotic syndrome: Hutan Ashrafian proposed this theory based
‘on numismatic and sculpture studies [17]. He noticed a portrait of Alexander on a Greek coin re-
vealing a facial horn which suggests a possibility of scoliotic epidermal nevus syndrome

[18)- Additionally, adults with Klippel-Feil syndrome may present with a short neck, cervical defor~
‘ity, oculomotor findings, facial asymmetry, abnormal gait, orthodontic defects, and a family his
tory of limb irregularities. Neurofibromatosis can result in malaise, pyrexia, and neurological dete-
rloration, Epidermal nevus syndrome could account for cervical scoliosis, familial musculoskeletal
deformities with seizures, ocular irregularities, and factal horns. Repeated cervical trauma can
cause quadriplegia. Furthermore, the asymmetry of his head, shoulders, and neck axis and asym-
‘metry of the eyes with limited adduction in the marble bust of 2nd and 1st BC may indicate the ex-
‘otropic Duane syndrome Il, Heterochromia irides and abnormal dentition may be associated with
it However, itis difficult to establish the diagnosis in the absence of Alexander's body. The use of
iconographic records, such as numismatics and sculpture, to provide evidence of clinical symp-
toms is shown to be highly misleading, However, there is a whole series of extant sculptures of
Apollo, young athletes, women poets, such as Sapho, prior to or contemporary with the bust of
Alexander, which display similar features as enumerated by Ashrafian as being abnormal {17}


Page 10, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Gent Individuals or organizations. Curens is not responsibie for tie scentific accuracy or relability
‘of data or conclusions published herein. All content published within Cureus is intended only for
‘educational, research and reference purposes. Additionally, articles published within Cureus
should not be deemed a suitable substitute for the advice of a qualified health care professional.
Do not disregard or avoid professional medical advice due to content published within Cureus.
Footnotes
‘The authors have declared that no competing intrest exis.

References

1. Glee MT. Cicero on Divination Book 1 Oxford, United Kingdom: Oxford University Press; 2006. [Goose Scola

2 Green  Borza EN. Los Angeles: University of California Press; 2013. Aleander of Macedon, 356-323 BC: A Historical
‘Blograph.[GngeleScholas)

‘3 Worthington Oxford Oxford Univesity Press: 2014, By the Speat Philip, Alexander the Great, and the Rise and Fall of
‘he Macedonian Empire. [Goole Scola

4. Heckel W. Cambridge: Cambridge Unlversty Press; 2012. The Conquest of Alexander the Great. [Goose Scola
5.Anoteon Aletander’s death Engels D lass Pll 1978:73:224-228.[Pubbied[Gaogle Schalay

6 Pancreatic encephalopathy and Wermcke encephalopathy In assoclation with acute pancreas clinical stdy. un GH,
Yang YS, Lu QS, Cheng LE, Huang XS, Word Gastroenterol 2006;12:4224-4227, [PMC feats) [PubMed [Google
Scala

7 Guillain-Barré syndrome assocated with acute pancreatitis. Case report [Article In Portuguese] Grzesluk AK, ds Santos
LA Ary Newropsiquatr 1999357:972-875, [Eubtie [Ganga Scholal

8 Alexander the Gres’ relationship with alcohol lappa A, Lascarsos J Ffoutl Christodoulou GN. Addiction
2003:98:561-567. [PubMed [Gvosle Scholar

9-Aleander the Great and West Nile virus encepalis. Mar J, Clisher CH. Emerg Inet Dis, 2008:1599-1603. [PMC
fixeaicle (Ebel [Gianee Scho]

10. mysterious death. Oldach DW, Richard RE, Borza EN, Benltez RM. N Engl) Med, 1996:338:1764-1769.(ubMéel
(Google-Scalse

11, The deat of Alexander the Great malaria or typhold fever? Cunha BA Infect Dis Clin N Am. 200418:53-63. [Lud]
[ooate Scholar

12 Some observations on malarla and the ecology’ of central Macedonla In antiqlty.Borza EN. Am J Ane Hist. 2007;42:102-
125. (Gagne Schola]

13, Alexander of Macedon, the greatest warrior of all times: did he have selzures? Hughes JR. Epllepsy Behav. 2004;5:765-


Page 10, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘The content published in Cureus is the result of clinical experience and/or research by indepen-
dent individuals or organizations, Cureus is not responsible for the scientific accuracy or reliability
‘of data or conclusions published herein. All content published within Cureus is intended only for
‘educational, research and reference purposes. Additionally, articles published within Cureus
should not be deemed a suitable substitute for the advice of a qualified health care professional.
Do not disregard or avoid professional medical advice due to content published within Cureus.


Page 11, Instance 0, Class: Text
14. Phillips G. London: Virgin Books; 2004. Alexander the Great: Murder in Babylon. [Googie Scholar]
15.Inoduction: th history f arsenic trou In cancer therapy. Antman KH, Oncologist 20015 Suppl 21-2. [Ped
(Googie Scalar)
16.A stone at the slege of Cyroplls and the death of Alexander the Great Williams AN, Armot RJ Mist Neuro.
2004:13:130-137. [PubMed [Gvosle Scholar
17-The desth of Alecande the Great-a spinal twist of fae Ashrafan Hj Hist Neurosl,2004;13:138-142. PubMed
(Google Scholae)
18.The"homs' of a medial lemma: Alexander the Great Russell GA.J Hist Newrasel 2004:13:159-165. [ube [Gosle
Scholar)


