[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_1instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_1instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_1instance2.jpg]

Page 1, Instance 3, Class: Text
Alexander the


Page 2, Instance 0, Class: Text
2015. kindle Edition
tdited by
Jerry W. Bush Jr
November 28- December 2, 2021.


Page 3, Instance 0, Class: Text
Table of Contents
Preface 4
Introduction. 5
Chapter One: Ancient Macedon 6
Chapter Two: Alexander during his youth 10
Chapter Three: Alexander becomes King 13
Chapter Four: Invasion of Persia. 15
Chapter Five: Onward to Issus 21
Chapter Six: The Siege of Tyre 27
Chapter Seven: Alexander in Egypt 30
Chapter Eight: The Battle of Gaugamela 32
Chapter Nine: Pursuit of Darius 36
Chapter Ten: To the ends of the Earth 38
Chapter Eleven: The Return to Persia. 42
Chapter Twelve: The Susa marriages, 44
Chapter Thirteen: Death of a King 47
Chapter Fourteen: After his death 48
Chapter Fifteen: His body. 49
Endnotes. 53


Page 4, Instance 0, Class: Text
NO

1 was taking a Research and Academic Writing class inthe Fall semester at Regent University
‘The main assignment for the class was toa subject from a series of subjects. I chose Alexander the
Great

‘Thomas Blackwell's book helped me gather the early information I needed to get my report
started. I chose this book because it was (and stills) free under Kindle Unlimited, However, while
reading this book, I noticed quite afew typographical errors, incomplete sentences, wrong word
usage, syntax, and the fact that Thomas did not cite where he got his information, Thomas also
hhad a bad habit of making long run-on sentences. I guess you get what you pay for (or get for free)
‘While itis obvious that he got his information from the historian Arran, cannot find from whose
‘wanslation Thomas cited

Thave taken it upon myself to copy the entre book from Kindle and edit itt be more user-
friendly and better eading. 1am doing this for free and on my own time. The pictures took a bit
‘of work as they could not be copied and pasted, So, Thad to Google each picture individually using
Words found inthe pictues or keywords from around the pictues. Ihave done my best to put the
same kind of pictures used in the Kindle version.

As for citing, there is nothing I ean do for that unless I stumble across the same wording. While
‘one can search the web, or different books to get their information there is almost no way to know
Where Thomas got his information, The best that I can do is cite where I get my information to
correct the mistakes from Thomas’ book. This willbe done with the use of footnotes at the bottom.
‘of each page. also use footnotes to note changes that I made that were corrected from the original
T make use of endnotes 10 cite from where I go the pictures

‘One last bit of information: I make great use of Grammarly to check my writing. Iwas led to
do so by one of my professors at Regent University. find it extremely helpful to fix my grammar.
It has also helped me achieve better grades on my schoolwork.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_5instance0.jpg]

Page 5, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘Alexander IIT of Macedon died atthe age of only 32 in 323BC. He ruled for only 13 years,
inheriting a small kingdom on the northern edge of Greece. He transformed the small kingdom of
Macedon into the leading state in Greece and then conquered the largest empire ever known,

He eared the tile of "The Great” for his military genius and amazing conquests, but he was
also an amazing personality. He believed himself to be the son of Zeus, was loved and adored by
his troops, whom he fought side by side with for all of his fiercest battles. He achieved through,


Page 6, Instance 0, Class: Text
ee FL ror
ie I messin or macezon
ome“ MARERONESSS MACEDON, 431 8C
— KINGDOM OF MACEDON, 336 8¢
ee ceatoig | © oerenvenr renerrones
St es Bs f
7 NS Nish. Pr
—e ‘AEGEANSEA
IONIAN SEA AN eet
% © BOET
Ra SoD hee a4
‘ pad Mette a: taal og po
i ae Xn
Me 1, aga (Hots =
WS
bs em et |
a CYCLADES: ae
Sas =
Fgue2 Map ofthe Ani Maeda 1-36 BC
Republic of Macedonia. It was onthe Norther edge of Ancient Grece (which was nota country
in the modem sense, but several small, independent citystts inhabited by Greek-speaking
“These Greeks view their northern neighbors as a backward, barbaric Kingdom whose favorite
this agricultural backwater that Alexander’ father inherited asthe new leader of the Argead
Dynasty in 359 BC.


Page 7, Instance 0, Class: Text
Phillip was able to eement his power while his southern neighbors were focused elsewhere in
«civil war. His focus was on transforming the army into what would be the greatest army of the
period, Initially, Phillip focused on the infantry. As a young man, Pillip had been a hostage inthe
city-state of Thebes. Drawing on what he saw, he used the formation known as the Theban wedge
‘or echelon, This wedge consisted of protruding columns arrayed up to 50 shields deep. This proved
to bea devastating weapon. Philip changed the weaponry from a hoplite spear to sarissa, an 18-t0-
20-fo0t pike, over twice the length ofthe traditional weapons. It had the advantage of having at
least four spear points protruding in front of the front shield, No contemporary hoplit armies were
able to cope with these changes. The sarissa head alone measured two feet and sliced through
shields and armor-like swords attached to hardwood poles. The opposing hoplite whose shield was
transfixed and dislocated by one sarissa soon found himself bloodied by another.

Philip also changed the helmets, redesigned the shield, and each man also received a smaller
double-edged sword called a xiphos for hand-to-hand combat. These changes and significant
rilling transformed the Macedonian Phalanx into the best equipped, drilled, and tactically superior
force in the world!


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_7instance1.jpg]

Page 7, Instance 3, Class: Text
Phillip was only 23 when he came to power, He was still to cement his place on the throne and.
held onto a fragile rule. Initially, his biggest concerns were to safeguard his borders and 0


Page 8, Instance 0, Class: Text
During Alexander's campaigns, the Phalanx was not used as the decisive arm, but that was
reserved for the next arm that Philip transformed, the cavalry. This was to be Alexander's strike
weapon, and his companion cavalry would be the first ‘shock’ weapons of antiquity. At this stage
in history, the stierups had not been invented, and men on horseback lacked the proper support for
Wielding heavy weaponry or accurately aiming bows. Most cavalry units were armed with lances,
or javelins. Galloping within range of the enemy, they would harass and weaken the enemy
infantry before the phalanx le? the main charge.

Phillip transformed the Macedonian cavalry to take advantage of theie superior mobility. The
mounted troops were trained to become superb horsemen who could contol their horses and stay
‘on them to3 fight on horseback in close quarters. Phillip also adjusted the standard formation from
«blocks to a wedge formation. This increased mobility and also the shock ofthe cavalry charges.

Lei eplacing ed
* Removed “to bate”


Page 9, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The wedge narrowed to a point creating a point for piercing enemy formations. It was also* easier
{turn than a square formation because everyone followed the leader atthe apex. The eavalry also
had the important job of making sure thatthe phalanx did not get outflanked

‘The most feared of the cavalry was called the Companion cavalry, as they were Companions
of Alexander. They were usually stationed on the sight side of the phalanx.

‘This army formed the key to Philip I's growing influence over the Geek city-states 10 the
south, He was able to win several battles against these foes, including Thessaly in 393BC, the
Phoenicians inthe Battle of Crocus Field in 352, and most importantly, a combined Athenian and
“Thebes army a the Battle of Chacronea in 338". This allowed Philip to set up the league of Corinth
in 337BC, sometimes referred to asthe Hellenic League. The league consisted of a federation of
Greek states created by Philip I after the Battle of Chaeronea to help facilitate his use of military
forces in his war against Persia. Every member of this league had to take the same oath, The ancient
inseription found in Athens

‘Oath. “swear by Zeus, Gaia, Helios, Poseidon and all the gods and goddesses. Iwill abide by
‘the common peace and I will neither break the agreement with Philip. nor take up arms on Land oF
sea, harming any of those abiding by the oaths. Nor shall [take any ety. oF fortress, nor harbor by
craft or contivance, wit intent of war agains the participants ofthe war. Nor shall I depose the
kingship of Philip or his descendants, nor the constitutions existing in each state, when they swore
the oaths of the peace. Nor shall I do anything contrary to these agreements, nor shall [allow
anyone else as far as possible. But if anyone does commit any breach of the treaty, I shall go in
support as called by those who need and I shall fight the transgressors of the common peace, as
decided (by the council) and called on by the hegemon and I shall not abandon-—~

Philip intended to use this league to invade Persia the large empire tothe east. However, he
Would never get that chance as he was murdered in 336BC by a young court official Pausanias,
and it would be an 18-year-old Alexander that would succeed him but let us step back a litle and
see how Alexander got to this point.


Page 10, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Chapter Two: Alexander during his youth

King Philip matied an Epirote princess” as his fourth wife in 357BC asa diplomatic mariage
to confirm the new relationship between the Macedonians and the Molossians. She was to bear*
Philp son named Alexander on 20 July 356

‘As a young boy, Alexander was affad of nothing and was very strong. AU 12, he tamed
beautiful horse called Bucephalus that noone else could ride, Philip was o proud of Alexander's
horsemanship tat be sai

O my con, seek out a kinedom worthy of thyself. for Macedonia is too little for thee.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_10instance1.jpg]

Page 10, Instance 2, Class: Text
"It seems weird that Thomas completly forges to name the princess/wife of Philip I/Alexander the
Great's mother? Her name is widely nwa as Olympas. Thre ia vey great bok called, Olympias: Maser of|
‘Alexander the Great by Elizabeth Cane, where you ean learn quite i about et

Boa replacing “bare”


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_10instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_10instance4.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_10instance5.jpg]

Page 11, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Alexander would come to love” the same beloved stallion that took him as far as India up to
the Hydaspes River, where he then died. Alexander would ride Bucephalus into all his major
battles and would build the city of Bucephalia in memory of his beloved horse.

Asa prince, he was even more ambitious than his father. He was known to remark, “My father
will get ahead of me in everything and will leave nothing great for me to do.

‘Alexander loved the Iliad so much that he knew it by heart. He loved Homer and always slept
With a copy of the liad under his pillow. His first teacher was Leonidas, who was a relative of his
mother. Leonidas helped instill his ascetic nature, which made him famous during his future
campaigns.

Philip encouraged the influence of Greek culture in Macedon, especially in his new capital city
of Pella, He invited poets, writers, and philosophers. One philosopher happened to be the famous
Aristotle, whom!” Philip asked to teach his son Alexander between the ages of 13 and 16.
Aristotle's interests were encyclopedic, from philosophy and arts to polities and science. Its clear
that Alexander leamed a lot from Aristotle, and when he invaded the Persian empire, he bought


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_11instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_11instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_11instance4.jpg]

Page 12, Instance 0, Class: Text
ruling in his father's absence. As his father and his army were deep into Thrace, the Thracian tribe
‘of Maedi rebelled and threatened the county.

‘Alexander assembled an army and led it against the rebels, where he swifily defeated them,
capturing the stronghold and actually renamed the town after himself calling it Alexandropols.
“Two years late, Philip gave his son a commanding post among senior generals. At the battle of
‘Chaeronea mentioned above, the Greeks were defeated. Alexander displayed his bravery by
destroying the elite Greek fore.

Not long after the defeat of the Greeks at Chaeronea, the royal family spit apart due to King
Philip marrying a woman of high nobility whose name was Cleopatra. Her uncle remarked that
Philip should father a legitimate heir: mainly one that was of pure Macedonian blood. Alexander
took exception to being called a bastard son, threw a goblet of wine in her uncle's face, and then
went after him, but Philip drew his sword and went after Alexander. Alexander then took his
mother and fled to Epirus. He was allowed to return later but was always uneomfortable and
‘remained isolated atthe Macedonian Court

In the spring of 336 B.C., Philip’ invasion of Persia was in motion when a young noble
Macedonian killed him. Alexander became his successor. The invasion of the Persian Empire now
Sel on, Alexander's shomiders.


Page 13, Instance 0, Class: Text
Chapter Three: Alexander becomes King

‘When Philip I! was murdered, it was not certain that Alexander would become King, as in
‘Ancient Macedon, it was not automatically the eldest son that inherited the throne. However,*
‘Alexander moved quickly and, withthe support ofthe amy, was acclaimed king. He moved
‘quickly to dispatch his domestic enemies by ordering ther execution

Even though he was now king of Macedonia, he did not automatically gain contol ofthe
CCovimhian League (The League of Corinth); Athens wanted to rule the league. Allover Greece,
eas that wanted to be independent started military movements. Alexander immediately led his
mies to Greece to stop these movements. The Greek sates quickly recognized him as ther leadet
except for Sparta, The league gave Alexander unfimited military powers, giving him the military
power he needed to allow him to attack Persia, Before crossing ino Asia, he wanted to safeguard
his northern borders.

Starting from Amphipolis, he traveled east into the country ofthe “Independent Thracians."?
‘AtMount Haemus, the Macedonian army atacked and defeated the Thracian forces manning the
eights. The army then marched into the country of Tribal and defested them near the Lyginus
River (a ibutary ofthe Danube.) Alexander then marched for thee days 10 the Danube where he
an into the Geta tribe on the opposite shore He was able to surprise them by crossing the river
a night forcing their army to tea after the first cavalry allack. Alexander was told that Ceitus
the king of lyri and King Glaukias of the Taulanti were in open revolt against his authority
Marching west into Ilyria be defeated each ruler forcing them o flee with their troops. With hese
Victories he was able to secure his northern frontier:

“The Greeks, mistakenly thinking that Alexander was dead, caused a major revolt to breakout
in the entre nation, Alexander was enraged. He marched south, covering 240 miles in two weeks,
and appeared before the wall of Thebes wih a large army. He gave the Greeks a chance to change
their mind, but the Thebans thinking they Would win, called for all Greeks who wished to set
Greece free to join them against the Macedonians. They were not aware thatthe Athenians and
Peloponnesians (who the Thebans thought were ther allies) were awaiting the outcome ofthis
batle before they committed to helping anyone.


Page 14, Instance 0, Class: Text
Perdiceas, Alexander's general attacked the gates, broke into the city and Alexander with the
‘est of his army behind him to prevent the Thebans from cutting him off stormed the city, klling
everyone inside" including women and children, 6,000 citizens died and 30,000 more were
captured and sold as slaves. The eity was also plundered, sacked, burned and razed tothe ground
‘the only things spared destruction were the temples and the house of the poet Pinder. Alexander
id this as an example tothe rest of Greece. Greece would remain under Macedonia rule.


Page 15, Instance 0, Class: Text
In 334 as Alexander decided to start his march against Persia, it covered almost the entre
‘known world east of Macedon ~ modern day Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Irae, Beypt, lag,
Kuwait, ran and Afghanistan. It was an exceedingly rich and powerful but not without its
problems

[As stated by Xenophon’, a mercenary who fought in Persia sixty years before “it was clear to
“anyone who paid close attention to the siz ofthe kings empire that it was strong in terms of lands
and men, but weak on account of the great distances of road and the dispersal of its forees, if
someone was to make a quick military strike against it."


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_15instance1.jpg]

Page 16, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘This meant that the Persian Empire was a large but cumbersome structure, which could be
taken by an efficient army, and which offered opportunities for enrichment ofthe conquerors, an
empire to be coveted rather than" feared.

‘The Greeks didn't forget the Persian invasion in the eatly fifth century. While they were
defeated in the famous battle of Marathon in 490BC, they came back under Xerxes with a massive
army, defeating the Spartans in the famous Battle of Thermopylae (the basis forthe movie 300)
and captured and destoy a large amount of Athens. Eventually the Persians were driven off but
the Greeks never forgot what happened and they wanted revenge.

March into Persia

‘The Battle of Granicus River

‘Alexander crossed the Hellespont in spring 334BC with approximately 32,000 infantry (12,000
Macedonian hoplites, 12,000 Greek infantrymen and 8,000 archers) and 5,100 eavalry (1,800
Macedonian heavy cavalry and the rest fom allied Greeks).

He took the helm atthe Hellespont crossing so he could copy the action ofthe hero Protsilaus
‘and would be the first to jump ashore. Alexander threw a spear and claimed Asia was” spear-won.
lands." He went into Troy and as the new Achilles dedicated his invasion to Athena. He declared
that all of Asia would be won by the Macedonian spear

‘When Alexander went to Asia, he only had 70 talents of silver and just enough food that would
last a month, He knew that he had to force battle quickly but frst he had 0 satisty the gods to
‘honour the Greek heroes" who had erossed the Hellespont before him, He made a deliberate detour
to the site of Ancient Troy, sacrificing atthe tomb of Achilles (Alexander's hero), meanwhile his
closest friend Hephaestion sacrificed atthe tomb of Patroclus, Achilles closest friend. Alexander
alo sacrificed in the temple of Athena, depositing a suit of armor. In exchange he removed the
"sacred shield of Athena," which was supposed to have been left there during the Trojan war,
making it some 800 years old. Ths shield would be carried before the Macedonian hoplites and is
said to have saved Alexander's life in the town of the Mallians, during his time in India

With food and pay only to last four weeks Alexander knew that he had t0 move quickly to
bring the Persians to battle and get some spoils of war to pay his troops. Persian King Darius II

"Deleted the space Between he wo paragrpts and made one paragraph ind one sentence pages


Page 17, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘obviously did't fel to threatened by Alexander left the defense to the local satraps (governors)
who decided, instead of moving forward to cut of Alexander immediately to hold the line atthe
Granicus River, in Mysia

‘The Batle of the Granicus River was the first of three major battles fought between Alexander
‘the Great and the Persian Empire, Near the site of Troy the battle took place in Northwestern Asia,
Minor. Alexander was able to defeat the forces of the Persian satraps of Asia Minor which included
4 large force of Greek mercenaries led by Memon of Rhodes. A Satrap was the name given to the
‘governors of the provinces of the ancient Persian Empire

Arian of Nicomedia wrote some narratives of this battle. Arran was a Greek historian, public
servant, military commander, and philosopher.

Below is a narrative of how Alexander tactically et up his army:

" Alexander sent Parmenion to take control of the left wing, while he Went along with his forces
to the right. He had already put in position a number of commanders. On the right there was
Philotas, son of Parmenion, in charge of the companion cavalry, the archers and the Agrianian
javelin men; next to him was Amyntas, son of Arthabaeus, who was in charge of the lancers, and
the Paconians and the squadron of Socrates: next were the royal guards, under the leadership of
Nicanor, son of Parmenion; then the phalanx of Perdiccas, the son of Orontes, and next to that the
‘tops led by Coenus, son of Polemocrates then those led by Amyntas, son of Andromenes, and
finally on the sight wing the phalanx led by Philip, son of Amyntas. On the left wing, the Thessaian
ceavalry were positioned fist, under the leadership of Calas, son of Harpalus, and next to them the
allied cavalry, commanded by Philip. the son of Menelaus; then Agathon Jed the ‘Thracian
contingent; beyond them were infantry battalions, the phalanx of Craterus, then those of Meleager
‘and Philip, right up tthe mide of the whole battle fine."

‘The Persians advanced from Zelea to the nearby Granicus River. This river is 60 to 90 feet
Wide. Because of ts varying depths, strong currents and steep banks this would cause a significant
‘obstacle for Alexanders cavalry also making it hard for his phalanxes to hold their formation. The
Persians established a strong defensive position onthe eastern bank and placed all their cavalry in

"white aot verbatim, hs paragraph is basicaly he seas whats ound in Arian 1.14.1-3. found
“Arrian’s paragraph in Duncan Campbell's Alexander's Great Calvary Battle: What really happened at the River


Page 18, Instance 0, Class: Text
the front line, creating as wide a front as possible—approximately 7,500 feet, or 1.4 miles.
Believing that they would be able o overwhelm he attackers with thei javelins thrown from an
clevated position they waited patently in confidence forthe artival of the Macedonian army. The
also had a large contingent of Greek mercenaries that were held in reserve.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_18instance1.jpg]

Page 18, Instance 2, Class: Text
the Battle of the Granicus, 334 BC!

[As the Battle of the Granicus began, the Persian Leaders focused on the movements of
‘Alexander as they were determined to kill him. He made a very conspicuous target because of the
littering armor he wore along with having white plumes on his helmet.

‘The Persians saw Alexander atthe head ofthe cavalry onthe right flank, so they concluded he
was going t attack them to ther left. ‘The Persians then transferred some oftheir cavalry regiments
from their center and massed them on and above the riverbank opposite Alexander where they


Page 19, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The tension inthe air was palpable, each side facing each other silently. Alexander stated the
battle by sending a forward advance force. A total of 950 horsemen and a phalanx of infantry
(1.000 soldiers) made a fein attack on Persia's extreme left flank with Socrates’ squadron leading
the way. Arsian whose account ofthe battle isthe most comprehensive and reliable had this to say

"At the point where the vanguard under Amyntas and Socrates touched the bank, the Persians
shot volleys on them from above, some hurling thei javelins into the river from their commanding
position on the bank, others going down tothe stream on the more level ground, There was a great
shoving by the cavalry, as some were trying 10 get out of the river, others to stop them, great
showers of Persian javelins, much thrusting of Macedonian spears. But the Macedonians, much
‘outnumbered, came off badly inthe first onslaught; they were defending themselves from the river
‘on ground that was not fim and was beneath the enemy's while the Persians had the advantage of
‘the bank: in particular, the lower ofthe Persian cavalry was posted here, and Memnon's sons and.
Memon himself ventured thei lives with them. The first Macedonians who came to grips with
the Persians were cut down, despite their valor:

Even though the Macedonian advance force was weak and met with intense resistance and
sutfered heavy loses, it suceeded in drawing the Persian left lank cavalry out of thei formations.
‘Once that happened Alexande’s trumpets started blaring commands, launching his main assault.
He led his companion cavalry the elite ofthe army forward. They fought their way tothe eastern
‘bank as the Persians hurled their jvelins at them. Atrian described the fighting at that point

“though the fighting was on horseback, it was more like an infantry battle, horse entangled
With horse, man with man in the struggle, the Macedonians trying to push the Persians once and
for all from the bank and force them on tothe level ground, the Persians trying to bar their landing
and thrust them back again into the river.”

‘As the feint attack was taking place Alexander and the rest of his army advanced, battle eres
resounding as they entered the river When the Persian leaders recognized Alexander, they rode
to engage him in hand-to-hand combat. Alexander's lance (sarissa) became splintered during his
fist struggle, and he called for another one. While he waited, he fearlessly continued to fight his
adversary. He was now fighting with the broken aft point

‘As soon as he received another sarissa, a Persian cavalry commander named Mithridates
appeared at the head of a squadon. Alexander rode forward and struck him in the face with his


Page 20, Instance 0, Class: Text
sarissa killing him instantly. Another Persian nobleman named Rhoesaces rode up with his scimitar
and sliced off pat of Alexander's helmet causing a minor wound, Cletus, commander of the royal
squadron who was entrusted to keep the king safe anticipated the blow and severed the Persians
sword arm saving Alexander's ie

“The Macedonians kept coming forward up the banks and the Persians kept trying to put them
back in the river. They wanted to Keep them from getting a foothold and rushing over the banks.
Arian wrote,

"The Persians were now being roughly handled from all quarters; they and their horses were
struck in the face with lances [srissas], they were being pushed back by the [Companion] cavalry,
and were suffering heavily ftom the light oops, who had intermingled with the cavalry.

‘The Macedonians slowly but steadily drove the Persians farther back, gaining the level ground
above the riverbank. As a result ofthe loss of many of its leaders the Persian cavalry started to
rapidly deteriorate. The frst to begin to give way was the Persian line where Alexander was
engaged, The whole center collapsed. Once the center caved in both wings ofthe Persian cavalry
panicked and fled, The Macedonian army couldn't chase the fleeing cavalry very far because the
Persian Greek mercenary infantry was sill holding their ground barring Alexanders path,

‘The mereenary contingent gave Alexander the terms under which they would surrender, but
‘Alexander rejected it and wanting to make an example of the "waitors" the mercenaries were cut
{down with only 2,000 of the 20,000 in the batle spared and sold into slavery in Greece. Alexander
ordered all who had fallen in the Bate of Granicus, including Persian leaders and Greek
mercenaries to be buried with military honors.

‘Alexander's heroic leadership, fighting inthe mide of the battle and narrowly escaping death
‘earned him what Diodorus called the "palm for bravery” and gave him his frst great victory over
the Persians, opening the way to Wester and southern Asia Minor. With the triumph at Granicus,
the Greek cities of Asia Minor were liberated from Persian rule and the beachhead was kept for


Page 21, Instance 0, Class: Text
Chapter Five: Onward to Issus

‘After the Butle of Granicus River Alexander was able to establish control over Asia Minor.
With no threat of attack Alexander was able to send back to Macedonia for the winter any men
married immediately before the campaign. This had the dual effect of increasing Alexander's
popularty® within the army as well an increase the size of his army as they bought on thet return
fresh recruits

‘Alexander secured his supply lines and did something unheard of in the ancient world, he
continued his campaign throughout winter. This enabled Alexander to secure the southern and
western coasts of Asia Minor, which meant thatthe Persians had no save place to land their fleet


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_21instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_21instance2.jpg]

Page 22, Instance 0, Class: Text
In Spring 333BC, Alexander met**up with his returned soldiers and fresh recruits in Gordium,
in central Turkey. While here he visited the famous oxcatt of King Gordium. The yoke of the oxen
hhad been tied to a pole so complicated that it was impossible to undo. According to legend,
Whoever managed to untie the Gordian knot would become the King of Asia, Alexander tried to
untie the knot but was unable. To complete the prophecy’ Alexander took out his sword and eut the
‘knot, declaring the prophecy fulfilled, stating that there was no limit to the way that the knot could
bbe untied. He may have cheated but it was great publicity

‘After Gordium Alexander continued to march through Asia Minor unchallenged tothe Ciician
‘gates, an extremely narrow pass that would be easily defended. The Persian defenders, however,
fled as Alexander approached, leaving the Macedonians free to pass through and to take the rich
city of Tarsus and opening up the coast, which is now modern Istael and Lebanon,

(On reaching Tarsus, Alexander had swam in the freezing water ofthe Cydnus River after
long Fide and caught a fever. This would take Alexander two months to recover from.

Following the loss in at Granicus River, Darius took over personal contol of the Persian army.
He had assembled large army in Sochi, modem Syria and upon hearing tis, Alexander marched
south to face the full force of the Persian army.


Page 23, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander discovered that he had made a serious miscalculation, While he had been heading south
onthe westem side ofthe mountains nea the coast, Darius had travelled north onthe eastern side
Alexander to fight o starve. The Persians also Killed and mutilated the sick and injured lft behind
at haus

‘The Persians, with their much ager army settled down on the Noth bank ofthe Pinas Rivet,
sear Iss and wailed for Alexander totum around and counter march back to face the Persian’
Ie vasa cold and rainy day on November 5, 3338 when the two aries faced each ober across
the sver, There Wete lage numberof boulders in he sve, meaning that charging horses Wete
at isk of breakin their legs and the banks in some places would be difficult to climb.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_23instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_24instance0.jpg]

Page 24, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘The situation for Alexander was not as bad as it Seemed, The Persians had drawn up on a
arrow coastal plain, only {Wo miles wide, with the sea on one flank and mountains on the other.
his meant that Darius didn't have enough room to deploy’ all of the Persian troops, while
‘teem der wee eble tn fully denice bie.


Page 25, Instance 0, Class: Text
“The battle stated with what would be Alexander’ signature moves. He charged with his
‘Companion cavalry on the right crossing the river at a charge and breaking through the Persian
‘resistance. Inthe meantime, Darius attacked the Thessaly cavalry on his ight but due to the Limited
space was unable to deploy his overwhelming numbers and despite pushing Parmenion and the
‘Thessaly cavalry back they were unable to break through,

Back over on the right, Alexander’ charge had broken through the Persian infanty line. On
his Fight, the rest of the companion cavalry crossed the river engaging and then driving back the
Persians This caused their entite left wing to collapse and the soldiers to fle. Alexander then
sovung round tothe center pressuring the Greek Mercenaries sutrounding Darius. Datius upon
“cosines that bebe Ven heal eases lermbeme uemesl ual fest thes beapttee


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_25instance1.jpg]

Page 25, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘Alexander, instead of chasing after Darius, continued around the back of the Persian Tine t0
support Parmenion. The fleeing of Darius caused the morale” to collapse and with the risk of being


Page 26, Instance 0, Class: Text
surrounded the Persian cavalry turned to flee. Due to the large number of soldiers they got in each
other's way and Alexander was able t0 score a complete victory. Despite chasing him into the
mountains Alexander was unable to capture Darius who would regroup later to carry on,

‘Alexander was able to capture the Persian camp which along with 3,000 talents of Gold and
Silver, Darius’ mother, wife and two daughters. They were taken hostage but were treated with the
respect that befitted members of a royal family. He let them know that Darius was alive. Darius
Would try to exchange them for half of his Kingdom, but Alexander would refuse

‘The following day Alexander would preside over a grand funeral for all those, Persian,
Macedonian and Greek mercenary that had fallen at Issus and would visit the wounded as they


Page 27, Instance 0, Class: Text
Chapter Six: The Siege of Tyre

Following the victory a Tssus, Alexander had the choice to continue his march east into Persia
in search of Darius before he could recover and fund another Army of to ead south along the
Mediterranean coast to destroy the Persians naval power, he chose the later"

During this period the suength of your navy depended on the contol ofthe ports as Ancient
ships could not operate far fom land or could they remain at sea fora long dine as they coukd
cary only limited amounts of food or water

‘Alexander marched his amy down the Phoenician coast wih his army about 35,000 to 40,000
sttong. The northern cities were quick to capitulate and recognize Alexander as their new overlord
He received the capitulation of Byblos and Sidon, Tyran envoys reached Alexander while he was,
‘ona march, declaring they intended wo honor his wishes,

‘Alexander’ wish was a simple one. He wished t satfice to Heracles in Tyre. The Tysin's
thought this might be a ploy by Alexander to getin and occupy the city and refused but did say he
was welcome to sactfie to Heracles in Old Tyre, which was built upon the mainland and held no
strategie importance.

1c was also only the King of Tyre that could satfice to Heracles in dhe Main Temple in New
‘Tyre and by doing so Alexander would be asking to be recognized as the King. The Tyrian's
‘refused and closed thet gates and harbor tothe Macedonians. The refusal of the Tysian’s was
tantamount to a declaration of war to Alexander

“The Tyrians were aware of Alexanders growing reputation but were confident because they
had a powerful navy and mercenary army. Their city ly roughly half @ mile offshore, and
sccording o Arian, the walls facing the landward side towered to an impressive 150 fn height
‘The defenses of Tyre were formidable and had withstood a number of sieges in the past. The
‘Tyrians began to evacuate most ofthe women and children to ther colony at Carthage, leaving
behind around 40,000 people. Carthage also promised to send military help such as ships and


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_28instance0.jpg]

Page 28, Instance 1, Class: Text
Figure 13 Historical Map of Tyre and Vicinity. Mlustrating the Stege of Tyre, 333-332 BC."

‘Alexander was aware that Tyre was supposed to be impregnable and convened a council of
war. He explained to his generals how important it was to secure all Phoenician cities before
advancing on Egypt. Tyre was a stronghold for the Persian fleet and leaving them behind would
‘threaten Alexander's rear. In the hopes of preventing a long exhaustive siege, as a last-ditch
attempt, he sent heralds to Tyre demanding their surrender, but the heralds were executed, and
their bodies thrown into the sea

After negotiations failed, Alexander began his operations in January 332. BC. He went and
‘occupied old Tyre and from there began to construct a causeway (or mole) across the channel
toward the walls of Tyee, using rocks, timbers and rubble taken from the buildings ofthe old city
At first the work progressed well, the water near the mainland was shallow, but a the causeway
‘grew longer the Macedonians and Greeks began to run into wouble. The sea depth was increasing


Page 29, Instance 0, Class: Text
to over 18 feet. Work slowed down and the work gangs found themselves harassed by missile fire
from the city walls

‘Alexander constructed two siege towers and positioned them at the end of the causeway.
Artillery engines atthe top of the towers were able to return fire at the walls. Alexander spent
much of his time on the mole and dispensed small amounts of money to his laborers and led by
personal example,

‘The Tyrians quickly devised a plan to topple the siege towers. They constructed a special ire
ship, which was weighted down aft to raise the bow The Tyrians attacked the end of the mole
Teniting the fre ship, it rode up onto the mole setting the towers ablaze.

Even though this was a setback, Alexander endeavored to complete the mole even though he
‘became increasingly convinced it would take a formidable navy to capture the city. As luck would
hhave it, 120 ships from Cyprus arived as well as another 80 that defected from the Persians. As
his naval stength swelled, he was able to blockade Tyre's two harbors. Refittng several ships with
catapults and battering rams, he anchored them near the city. The Tyrian divers dove out and eut
the anchor cables. Alexander countered this by ordering the cables replaced with chains

With the mole neatly reaching Tyre, Alexander ordered catapults forward which began
‘bombarding the city walls. Finally breaching the wall in the southern part ofthe city, Alexander
prepared massive assaults, While his navy attacked through the breach, siege towers were floated
against the walls while troops attacked through the breach. Despite fierce resistance from the
‘Tytians, Alexander's men were able to slay the inhabitants, only those who took refuge inthe cities
shines and temples were spared,

For months the besiegers blood was up, and after long and bitter siege, they were not inclined
tbe merciful. Six thousand Tyrians were slaughtered when the city was taken, and another 2,000
crucified on the beach. A further 30,000 were sold into slavery. The King and his family were
spared and a number of Carthaginian pilgrims who took sanctuary in the Temple of Melgar.
Macedonian losses were only 400.

“After seven months, the siege was finaly over and" Alexander was finally able to make his
sacrifice to Heracles and held a torch race and triumphal procession through the streets of the city
“Tyre was subjugated.
finally over and.


Page 30, Instance 0, Class: Text
From Gaza it was 140 miles across the Sinai desert to Egypt. Alexander kept close tothe coast
and had fresh water and food supplied by the navy supporting him along the coast. When
‘Alexander arrived in Memphis, he received no resistance. The Egyptians hada history of opposing
Persian rule and Alexander was proclaimed as the new pharaoh and made sacrifices tothe Egyptian
gods

From Memphishe travelled down the Nile othe coast where he would found the world-famous
city that would take his name. Alexandtia would eventually become the largest city ofthe ancient
World, home to one ofthe ancient wonders, the Lighthouse of Pharos and the enter of knowledge,
the Great library of Alexandria. It would become an incredibly wealthy center of trade and the
‘heart of intellectual and cultural progression,

From Alexandria, Alexander made a difficult trip, 200 miles along the coast and then 100 miles
south across the Sahara desert to the Oasis of Siwah with a small number of companions. The


Page 30, Instance 1, Class: Text
Stapler seven. Alexander in Leypt
After taking Tyre, Alexander continued to head south, receiving the capitulation ofall the cities
until he had travelled 160 miles south to Gaza, a rich city situated atthe end ofthe southern trade
route. It was built on a large mound and had large walls however they were no match to the siege


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_30instance2.jpg]

Page 31, Instance 0, Class: Text
Its unknown the answers received by Alexander there, but he is said to have written a letter
{to Olympias, his mother stating that he would only reveal the answers to her on his return home to
Macedonia. After leaving Siwah and then Alexandria, Alexander returned to Tyre where he set
‘out to complete his mission to defeat Darius, which culminated with the Battle of Gaugamela


Page 31, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘Temple of Ammon was situated here, and the high priest would take on the character of Ammon
and answer questions with nods and gestures. Alexander, welcomed as the Son of Ammon, was
lead inside alone by the priest, with the rest of the party left outside. After a time, Alexander came
‘out of the temple stating that he was happy with the answers given to him and everybody left.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_31instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_31instance3.jpg]

Page 32, Instance 0, Class: Text
Chapter Eight: The Battle of Gaugamela

[As the summer of 331BCE approached, Darius was stationed in Babylon and Alexander in
“Tyre. Alexander set out East and reached the Euphrates River, fiom where Darius expected him to
follow the river south to Babylon, Instead, Alexander crossed and continued east reaching the
‘Tigris River, staying othe North of Darius. The reason for this is that the floodplains here where
ideal for cavalry of which Darius had far greater numbers.

“The two kings played cat and mouse wi neither wanting to come to Face the other where they
were to give away the testoial advantage. It was Darus whose far larger army was expensive to
feed and pay for that broke first, He moved north, crossing the Tigris river and even found an area
large enough to allow his cavalry to fully maneuver, a plan at Gaugamela

‘Alexander made camp several mile from Darius. Even with reinforcements, Alexander's army
was now about 40,000 infantry and 7,000 cavalty. Darius’ 40,000 cavalry and infantry (estimates
range from 100,000 to nearly one milion) dwarfed this. I is not as bad as it seems, while the
Persian cavalry were good soles the infantry was poor and would play ony a lite role in the
upcoming batt

‘While on a scouting trp, Alexander came upon an advance party sent by Darius. While some
ofthe party fle, several others were captured and were more than willing to tell of Darius’ numbers
and the presence ofthe traps and obstacles on the Field

‘The night before the battle Alexander held a council of his generals; Parmenion, the
commander of Alexanders left flank suggested that the lage size of Darius’ forces called for them
to attack at night; however, Alexander disagreed. The historian Arian made mention of this
episode in his History of Alexander:

Ie is said tha Parmenion came to hi in his tent and urged him to make a night atack on the
Persians saying that thus he would fll upon them unprepared and in a state of confusion... but
the reply which he made to him .. was tha it would mean to steal a victory

Later, as Alexander addtessed his men, he spoke of the forthcoming batl, reassuring the
typically superstitious Macedonians that an earlier eclipse ofthe moon was a sign of victory.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_33instance0.jpg]

Page 33, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘On the day ofthe battle, October 1, 331BCE, Alexander i said to have overslept. As he had
previously done, he made sure his men were well fed and well rested. Darius and his men, on the
other hand, spent®a sleepless night waiting for a night attack that never eame.

‘Alexander's setup was the same as at Issus, Parmenion was t0 lead the Thessaly and allied
cavalry on the lef, mainly in a defensive role while Alexander, onthe right of the Phalanx, was to
lead the assault of the Macedonian cavalry

[As the battle began, Alexander and his Companions immediately moved to the right at” an
‘oblique angle. Following Darius's orders, the Persians, under the leadership of Bessus, moved t0
their left, countering Alexander in an attempt to outflank him. As the Persians moved further and
further to their left and into terrain that had not been cleared, an opening or gap was created


Page 34, Instance 0, Class: Text
According to some historians, this entire move by Alexander had been a feint. Seeing the opening,
‘Alexander formed his men into a wedge and quickly moved to his left and into the clearing,
charging the shocked Darius. Over on the Persian right the cavalry under Mazaeus was putting
intense pressure on Parmenion, forcing them™ back but again the Thessaly cavalry held

‘While Alexander was challenging the Persians on the right, Darius sent his seythed chariots
towards the Macedonian center, a move that filed to have the effect Darius had hoped. As the
chariots approached, the phalanx merely opened ranks, allowing the chariots to passthrough. The
infantry immediately set upon the Persians, and hand-to-hand combat soon followed. Alexander,
spying Darius, seized upon the opportunity and threw a spear at the shocked king (missing him by


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_34instance1.jpg]

Page 34, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘Alexander's charge through the gap on the Persian left caused Darius to lose his nerve, so
despite the battle being far from lost he again decided to flee the battlefield. This caused the


Page 35, Instance 0, Class: Text
morale of the Persian army (even where the battle was going well o collapse and followed
their king inflight and were soon routed. Alexander had won the day again and Persia lay open to
him, Darius, who fled to Eebatana in Media, had survived but he would never again be able to
bring an army into the field to face Alexander.


Page 36, Instance 0, Class: Text
ee EE EE
Following his decisive victory Alexander was publicly proclaimed to be the "King of Asia
‘thus fulfilling the prophecy of the Gordian Knot. He marched south to Babylon which opened its
‘gates und embraced theie new ruler, Alexander rebuilt their main temple and also now" had access
to the amazingly large Persian treasury kept there. After resting and relaxing in Babylon Alexander
set out to complete the conquest of heart of Persia. In December 331BC, Alexander reached Susa
which surrendered, and Alexander received the treasury containing over 1,500 tons of silver.


Page 36, Instance 1, Class: Text
He then moved onto the heart of the ancient Persian Empire, Persepolis. Persepolis resisted
and after it was stormed, Alexander let is troops sack the city, withthe exemption ofthe palaces
Alexander then raided the treasury of over 1,500 tons of silver and gold and stayed in the Royal
palaces for-4 months to consolidate his gains, finances and to plan his next moves Prior to leaving
Persepolis, Alexander burnt down the palaces in revenge forthe Persian’s destruction of Athens
150 years before


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_36instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_36instance4.jpg]

Page 37, Instance 0, Class: Text
Daring this time, Darius was in Eebatana (moder Hamadan) and had! managed to build up a
small army and was waiting for further reinforcements from the East. Alexander sent off to capture
Darius, hoping to capture him and make him recognize him as the rightful ruler of Asia, Upon
‘hearing that Alexander was moving against him, Darius retreated from Eebatana t the northeast.
‘After reaching Ecbatana, Alexander placed Parmenion as the military contoller ofthe strategically
important city. To capture Darius Alexander pressed his troops, covering 200 miles in LI days t0
‘ty and him off before he erossed through the Caspian gates. Upon reaching them he learned that
Darius had already crossed through the pass so Alexander waited 5 days to rest his men and horse.

‘After crossing through the pass, he covered 60 miles in two days, along the edge of the Dasht-
ce Kavir desert, The next day as he was foraging for food, he learnt that his own generals had
arrested Darius. Seting off on a final chase, travelling for two days and nights across the desert,
‘they reached the camp where the remnants of Darius’ forces had camped the night before. Learning
from locals that there was a quicker way through a waterless pat of the desert to catch the Persians,
‘Alexander set off with 500 of his toughest men and they rode through the night. Covering 45 miles
by dawn, he came across the Persians. With only sixty men who had kept up with him. they
attacked straight away, On recognizing Alexander, the Persians stabbed Darius before fleeing. By
‘the time that Alexander had reached Darius cartiage, he had died

He had forced his men to cover over 250 mils in less than’ a week. Which in ancient times
as unheard of, half of the horses had died, and the remaining horses were spent. Unfortunately.
it was all in vain as they were unable to capture Darius alive. However, Alexander gave him a
‘royal funeral in Persepolis where he was buried next to his ancestors. It was July 330BC and now
‘Alexander was the undisputed ruler of Asia, at only 26 years old.


Page 38, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Chapter Ten: To the ends of the Earth

Following the death of Darius, Bessus who had led the Persian cavalry at Gaugamela usurped
the title of King of Kings, renaming himself Artaxerxes IV. In Bactria, which is modem
‘Afghanistan the mountain campaign meant that no large battle was possible, instead Alexander
hhad to conduct a series of smaller campaigns, which took three years to finally subdue the area
Using the speed and discipline developed over the years of campaigns, Alexander split his army
‘and under the conteol of suecessful generals gradually subdued the area, After a number of sieges,
Bessus was betrayed to Alexander, who after placing him on the roadside naked, in chains and
wearing a wooden collar, had him mutilated and executed, Also during the campaign, Alexander
‘married Barsine, a Bactrian princess who was reported to be the most beautiful woman in Asia,

‘While on the Bactrian campaigns there was a plot on Alexanders life known as the Philotas
conspiracy. A Macedonian noble, Dimnus conspired to kill Alexander and confided this with his
lover Nicomachus. However, when Nicomachus told his brother Cebalinus, Cebalinus had to warn
‘Alexander. He came across Philotas, the son of Parmenion and told him. Philotas, however
ignored the warning, thinking that it was not serious. Cebalinus continued to try and get his
warning to Alexander and once he did, both Dimnus and Philotas were arrested

Dimnus managed to kill himself before tral but Philotas, a boyhood friend of Alexander, but
who was unpopular with other senior Macedonians was found guilty and murdered. Alexander
‘knew this would infuriate Parmenion who was in charge of a large army’ and financial reserves in
Eebatana. Taking no chances, a messenger was dispatched with great haste and Parmenion was
executed.

At the star of 326BC, with Bactria finally secure, Alexander wanted to continue on his
‘campaign to the ends of the world; oss the Indus River and beyond into modern India, This was
further than” the Persians had ever gone. Alexander crossed the Indus River in May into the
Kingdom of Taxiles, who surrendered to him, so they continued on until they ran into an Indian
king, Porus who instead of welcoming the Macedonians drew up on the east bank of the Hydaspes|
River with a force of 30,000 infantry, 4.000 cavalry and 200 war elephants.

“Bed this sentence make bee sense. (A Macedonian aobe, Dimausconspted o kill Alexander and
‘confided thle with bis haves Niconsuchus wha tohd hie brother Cohalimus focad oat and atand to wera Alowanden)


Page 39, Instance 0, Class: Text
Knowing that Alexander was coming, Porus aimed to prevent the Macedonians from crossing
the river. AC the time, the Monsoon rains meant that the rising river made" a direet assault
impossible, especially forthe horses, which were frightened ofthe elephants. Alexander lft the
main part of his army, under Craterus directly across from Porus and stationed three phalanx


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_39instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_40instance0.jpg]

Page 40, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘The battalions stationed upstream also crossed and were able to join up with Alexander just as the
battle was stating.

‘Alexander drew up his forces in standard fashion with the Phalanx guarded on the tight by
‘Alexander and his companions with limited cavalry under Coenus hidden from view on the left.
Porus placed his cavalry on his lft to counter Alexander, while placing his Key weapons, his 200
war elephants, at 15m intervals in front of his infantry.


Page 41, Instance 0, Class: Text
of their army was killed. Porus was injured but when Alexander asked how he wished to be treated
Porus said "Like a King” and Alexander gave him his kingdom back to rule on Alexander's behalf

‘Alexander continued south-west where his tusted horse Bucephalas died of old age and
‘Alexander founded the city of Bucephala in his honor. Alexander had intended to conquer the rest
‘of India, which was believed to be a reasonably small country. It was becoming apparent that this
was not the ease when the Macedonians reached the Hyphasis River. With the seemingly never-
ending county stretched out before him, the soldiers mutinied, refusing to go any further and
handing Alexander his only defeat, Alexander shut himself away in his tent for three days, making
sacrifices to the gods and (declaring the omens to be unfavorable) gave the orders to return to


Page 42, Instance 0, Class: Text
Chapter Eleven: the Return to Fersia

In September 326BCE, the forces return to Bucephala, which was on the Hydaspes river and.
started fo sail downstream. In Alexander's" absence, a large fleet had been built, consisting of?
‘nearly 2,000 ships consisting of warships, troop and horse transports and supply ships. They
travelled downstream, entering ever-larger tributaries of the Indus river. As they travelled, they
subdued many people but while storming a city of the Mallians, Alexander, who was first over the
alls was initially only supported by three bodyguards. While he managed to kill some defenders,
the was shot with an arrow. One of his bodyguards, using the sacred shield of Athena (taken from
‘Troy at the start of the campaign) managed to protect him while the rest of the army was able 10
scale the walls and believing Alexander to be dead, the soldiers massacred everybody.

‘There was a rumor back at the main camp that Alexander had died and there was suspicion
that the generals were hiding the truth causing a near riot of the oops. Even when a letter was
produced from Alexander as proof that he was alive did not stop the anger. It was only when
‘Alexander's body was displayed on a river barge for the army to see and then the raising of his
hhand that bought the ioting* to an end,

Ii then took" until October 325BCE to reach the mouth of the Indus river out to the Arabian
sea. The army then set out for Persia, The army was spit, with Nearchus sailing the navy down
the previously unchartered coast, Craterus leading large par ofthe army through an easier inland
route. However, Alexander tempted fate by crossing across the very harsh, waterless Gedrosia
desert by sticking close tothe coast, in contact with Nearchus, to help supply the troops using the
Navy. With temperatures of up to 120 degrees and long stretches without water, the conditions
Were terrible. Marching only at night for sixty days, with supplies running dangerously low, the


Page 42, Instance 1, Class: Text
Satexandee's replacing “his

“© Aad "consisting of

Added ‘the sae’ for lay

+ "Ricing” replacing problems”

* Switched around the words “ook” and “then.”

Originally “The army was split, with Nearchus sailing the navy down the previously uncharted coast,
Caters eading a lage pat ofthe amy thgh an easier iland route while Alexander empted fate by crossing ihe
‘Gediosia dese By sticking close wo the east in contact with Neatchus to alp supply the Navy Alexander
‘eaelled across very hash, waterless dest.


Page 43, Instance 0, Class: Text
© Originally “Marching only at night fer sity days, with supplies runing dangerously low the Soldiers
were forced tol for food whatever baggage ania, which had not alfeady died fom the het and reached Persia
asa shadow of what they were bore


Page 43, Instance 1, Class: Text
soldiers were forced to kill for food whatever baggage animals were available, since many had
already died from the heat and those that reached Persia were a shadow of their former selves”


Page 44, Instance 0, Class: Text
Chapter Twelve: The Susa marriages.

‘With the campaigning winding down, Alexander tied to fuse the Macedonian and Persian
cultures together This had been going on ever since the Batle of Gaugamela but the crowning
ory ofthis was the Susa Weddings.

“These weddings were arranged by Alexander in 324 B.C. inthe Persian city of Susa His intent
was to unite the Persian and Macedonian cultures by taking a Persian wife himself and celebrating
{mass wedding witha Persian cefemony. He also arranged martages for his offices with noble
Persian wives. The unions were not only sytubolic, but also the offspring were tobe the progenitors


Page 44, Instance 1, Class: Text
* Rearanged much ofthis paragraph to be clearer and litle less wordy. Orginally-The Susa Weddings
was amass wedding aranged by Alexander of Macedonia in 324 B.C. in the Pesan city of Sus. His nent was fo
Unite the Persian and Macedonian cultures. by taking Persian wife himself and eelcrating a mase wedding with
Posian ceremony along wth his fcrs for Whom he atanged mariages with noble Persian wives. The union Was
sot only symbolic a the new asprin were to be the progenitors of both civilizations.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_44instance2.jpg]

Page 45, Instance 0, Class: Text
Mexander was already married’ to oxana, the qaughter of a pactrian clet, Sur Macedonian
and Persian customs allowed several wives. Alexander himself martied Staeira I, the eldest
daughter of Darius, and, according to Aristobulus, another wife in addition, Parysatis 11, the
youngest daughter of Artaxerxes IIL”

‘To Hephaestion he gave Drypetis, she was also a daughter of Darius. ‘This meant that
‘Alexander's wife sister. He wanted Hephaestion's children to be his own nephews and nieces. To
Seleucus he gave Apama, the daughter of Spitamenes the Bactrian, and likewise to the other
‘Companions the daughters of the most notable Medes and Persians, eighty inal

‘The weddings were solemnized in the Persian fashion: chairs were placed for
the bridegroom in order of precedence. After the toasts, the brides entered and each sat down by
her groom, who took them by the hand and kissed them. The king was the first to be matried, for
all the weddings were celebrated inthe same manner, and inthis ceremony. he showed even more
than his customary approachability and comradeship. Then the bridegroom took their wives back
to their homes and Alexander gave each of them a dowry. All the other Macedonians who had
previously married Persian women, he ordered to be registered. These were found to number more
‘than 10,000, Alexander then gave them all wedding-presents.

By marrying the daughters of Darius and Artaxerxes, Alexander was both identifying himself
With the Persians and also making his own position more secure. He could now claim to be the son
and rightful heir of both previous Persian kings. He also wanted to honor Hephaestion by making
bi his brother-in-law

‘What the Macedonians thought of these marriages is evident from the fact that all the nobles
divorced their wives after Alexander’ death, except Hephaestion, who died before Alexander, and
Seleucus. So, in spite of Alexander's precedent, the Macedonians were no more inclined to share
equally withthe Persians than before.

Soon after, Alexander's lifelong friend and second-in-command, Hephaestion, died in
Ecbatana from a fever, though some reports suggest he may have been poisoned. Historian
‘accounts of Alexanders esponse to this event universally agree that his grief was insupportable.
Plutarch claims that Alexander slaughtered the Cossaeans of « neighboring town as a sacrifice to
his frend, and Arrian writes that he had Hephaestion's doctor executed for failing o eure him. The
manes and tails ofthe horses were cu asa sign of mourning. Alexander refused to promote another


Page 46, Instance 0, Class: Text
1 Hephaestion's position as commander of the cavalry. He abstained from food and drink and
declared a period of mourning throughout his empire and funeral rites usually reserved for a king
‘and laid plans to build a great pyramid, like those seen in Egypt in Hephaestion’s honor.


Page 47, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘On May 29, he was attending a dinner party for Nearchus, who was to lead the fleet on his
invasion of Arabia, After a day of heavy drinking, Alexander complained that he did not feel well
‘and went to bed, suffering from a fever. His health steadily deteriorated over the following days
‘On the Sth of June, fearing that he was already dead the soldiers pushed into his room, demanding
to see him.

He was unable to speak or move but he welcomed each ofthe soldiers with a nod of his head.
‘or with his eyes as they filed past. The men insisted on saying their goodbyes to their general that
‘they had shared the past 13 years campaigning with, He had shared their triumphs and hardships
and was loved by his oops.

‘On the evening of June 10th, Alexander the Great, conqueror ofthe Persians and the King of
Asia, died. He was only thirty-two years old and in thirteen years changed the course of history


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_47instance1.jpg]

Page 47, Instance 2, Class: Text
ee DILL IE EE ESI
Eurly in 323 BC, Alexander traveled to Babylon to oversee the building of Hephaestion's
pyramid and the construction of a great fleet for his next invasion, of Arabia.


Page 48, Instance 0, Class: Text
Chapter Fourteen: After his death

“ter his death, Alexander's most important plans were abandoned.® His invasion of Arabia
would never take place and Hephaestion’s pyramid will never be built.

Instead of continuing Alexander's work and expanding his empire, his generals and family
members fought amongst themselves. The unity that Alexander had created evaporated nearly as
‘quickly as it was ereated** Alexander's half-brother was crowned king along with Alexander's
unborn son Alexander IV (from Roxane). Alexander's family was killed off during a complicated
set of civil wars with the end result being the formation of three smaller kingdoms based around
different_generals, Ptolemy in Egypt, Antigonus in Macedonia/Greece and Seleucus in
Babylon/Persia. These are the kingdoms that formed the pillars ofthe Hellenistic age where Greek
culture was preserved, enriched and formed the backdrop for the development of the modern
world.

‘The Antigonid dynasty was the frst to fall, in 168BC following defeat to Rome at Pydina,
meaning that Macedonia, Alexanders bisthplace would become a Roman provinee. The Seleucid
Dynasty would last until 64BC, when it disintegrates under pressure from Rome and the Parthians
from Asia, The las ofall would be the Ptolemaic Dynasty whose last rule, Cleopatra VIE, had
‘relationships with Julius Caesar and Mark Anthony, and was defeated during the Roman civil wars


Page 49, Instance 0, Class: Text
eee IS ES
Following his death Alexanders body was preserved using the latest Egyptian techniques, and
encased in honey in a see-through coffin, His funeral pyre was said to be the grandest ever ereated.
In 321 BCE as it was making its way back to Macedonia for burial it was stolen by Ptolemy and
taken to Egypt. The body was interred in Memphis.


Page 49, Instance 1, Class: Text
In 280 BCE, his body was moved from his Memphis tomb and moved to Alexandeia where
Prolemy If placed it in a grand communal mausoleum. Shortly after the death of Cleopatra,
Augustus visited the tomb and placed a golden crown on his head. By the fourth century C.E., the


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_49instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_49instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Figure\page_49instance4.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Ancient_History_Alive_Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_49instance5.jpg]

Page 50, Instance 0, Class: Text
location of his body was no longer known, and the situation was made worse after the Romans lost
control of Alexandria to the Muslims in the seventh century C.E,

Later in history, some historians, such as the Arabs Tbn Abd al-Hakam and Al-Masudi, report
visiting the tomb. Leo Afticanus (about 1520) and George Sandys in 1611,* reportedly saw the
tomb in Alexandria, The body however is now in an unknown location, reportedly (according to
some rumors) inthe Crypt of an early Christian church.


Page 50, Instance 1, Class: Text
5 Fixed ie names of Lo Afticanus and George Sands. Thomas had Leo Afcanus visting Alexande's
tomlin 191, This because RR. Madden ia his book, Phe Shrines and Sepulchres ofthe Old and New World,
‘ated the date as 1491, However, since Leo was not born unl 1494, woul say thi te date is wrong. whichis
‘why inserted about 1520” Since the dates (1491) af he sme, think we Satie ou ist (conned) cation
‘that Thomas used.


Page 51, Instance 0, Class: Text
After spending days polishing up Thomas Blackwell's book, hopefully the reader (if there are
any) thinks that I did a good job. It wasn't much ofa history of Alexander (and it still isnt), but
hopefully ike it did me, this book helps you find the base outline of the history of Alexander
the Great.

‘One thing that was vastly improved from Thomas’ original is citations. Ihave tied to find
Where Thomas got his information, Unfortunately, i looks like Wikipedia was his main source.
Below, I will give afew suggestions on where you can find better, more in-depth information on
“A ecomstor the Crear.


Page 52, Instance 0, Class: Text
An entire website complete with extra pages of detailed information ereated by John J.
Popovic hitps//Istmuse.con/framesfindex html
Duncan Campbell's Alevander's Great Calvary Batile: What really happened atthe River
Granieus?
hupssivww academia edu/3548631/Alexanders great cavalry battle What really happened at
the River Granicus

My favorite ofthe Alexander historians is Arian. Here is an English translation made by
Martin Hammond in 2013, hitps/ldokumen_publarrian-alexander-the-grea-the-anabasis-and-the-
indica-oxford-worlds-classicsnbsped-0199587248-0780199587247 him!

‘One ofthe frst papers I came across when I was doing a small research paper for my
English class was The Historians of Alexander the Great by Andrea Zambrini. Not oly did he
sive a decent amount of information about the earliest historians of Alexander and what they
said, but also gave a small bibliography (like here) where you can obtain more information.
ups:fAwww.academia,edw39302705/The Historians of Alexander the Great


Page 53, Instance 0, Class: Text
ceat/a/aleranderthe great

7 htp/fwww shortistororg/anclent<hilzaions/ancient macedonins/theorles-ofthe-macedonian-
vtn-and ellen

* htes/fwww.worahstory.og/Philp of Macedon/

* htaslfm.quora.com/ow-longnts-hitor-could-the-Macedonan-phalanx-have-been-vable-
snean-couldthave-been-sed-effectivsly-up fo theeary-meheval-era-r-would-t aleady have-been relevant
bythen

= ntps/victoanweb or/cculpture/stee/' hm)

* nnslommons.wkimedia og /ui/Fle-Arstotle_ and alexander she g0estJoe

* nnpsdeteustedu/maps/nages/3300/31¢4/314a him

* np J/wwu.emersonkent.com/map archie/batie ofthe grancus htm

* nips//ww, crstlinks.com gordianknot htm

‘*htip//wuwemersonkent.com/map afchive/batile of lssushim

‘hu //uw.emersonkent.com/map_archive/battle_of sus inital suation him

‘hp /uemersonkent.com/map_arcive/battle of leus_decive actionttm

‘yo fu ersersonkent.com/map archive lege of Wyre him

‘hoe ww actinate com peope/ptolemy ott

‘ htpey/ ww. dreamstime com/panorama-zaytunake-uns-amun-oracle-temple-mountain-dakrour.
svs-os-ypsia-0si-¢gvt-aanoram-magel0312351¢

‘8 https www. woridhstoy.org/artie/108/the-batl-ofgaugamels:331-bce/

2 bps ww. woridhstororg/artie/108/the-batle-ofgaugamels-31-bce/

* hps vw lv orate /person/éarusi-codomanous)

‘htp//wuwemersonkent.com/map afchive/battle of the hydaspes him

* htp.d/mun.emersonkent.com/map_acchive/btile_of the hudaspes atackttm

2 hupss//en wiped org/wh/Suse_wesldings

2 hp /facademic brooklyn. cuny.ed/lassic/wlson/archaicaphala htm

hp //lustations altervsta. ony augusteau-tombeau-dalexandreby francois:
schommedoing_wh_con=1638142003.6553649S70465087890525

° nttp://lapasan-myblognoel 45, blosspot.com/2024/03/the-slory-and-death-of-alexander-reat.html


