Page 2, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander the Great
The Macedonian Who Conquered the
World


Page 3, Instance 0, Class: Text
All rights reserved. No part ofthis book may be reproduced in
‘any form or by an electronic or mechanical means, including
information storage and retrieval systems, without permission in
writing from the publisher, except by a reviewer who may quote
brief passages in a review.

Written by Sean Patrick


Page 3, Instance 1, Class: Text
Copyright © 2013 by Sean Patrick


Page 4, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The Great Mystery of Genius

Drive and the Macedonian Who Conquered the World
Would You Like to Learn About More of History's Greatest
Geniuses...And How You Can Join Them?

Would You do me a Favor?

‘Blas fe Sean Paisiche


Page 4, Instance 1, Class: Text
Contents


Page 5, Instance 0, Class: Text
COS COE Pyotr y VE TUS
“Thousands of geniuses live and die undiscovered—either by
themselves or by others.”

“Mark Twain
If could write one sentence that would magically increase
‘your IQ by thirty points, would you be interested in reading that

sentence?

Probably. But why? What would be in it for you? Do you think
it would help you make more money? Make a name for
yourself? Find love, happiness, or fulfilment?

I've asked many people these questions and their answers
are invariable. “Of course it would.” The cultural correlation is.
Undeniable: we've been indoctrinated to believe that the higher
the IQ, the more likely one is to succeed in life. Hence, we
‘assume that the scientists that win Nobel Prizes, the
businesspeople that go from rags to millions, the authors that
write runaway bestsellers, register in the highest ranges of IO
simply because they're enjoying sweet successes.

Well, a tremendous amount of research has been done into
the scientific correlation between IQ and reabife success, and a
very different picture has emerged.

1Q and success are related...to a point. Sure, someone with
‘an IQ of 150 (a “genius” by all normal standards) is going to do
much better in life than someone with an IQ of 80 (nearly
“mentally disabled’). Similarly, a person with an IQ of 130 (‘near
genius’) has a significant upper hand in life when compared to a
person with an 1Q of 100 (‘average’).

But here's the catch: the relation between IQ and success.
follows the law of diminishing returns. That is, when you
‘compare two people of relatively high IQs, you can no longer
predict success by IQ alone. A scientist with an IQ of 130 is just


Page 6, Instance 0, Class: Text
1s likely to rise to the top of his discipline as one with an IQ of
180.

Dr. Liam Hudson, a British psychologist that headed up
‘Cambridge's Research Unit of Intellectual Development in the
sixties, compared IQ to basketball. If you're five foot five, your
prospects of becoming even an NBA bench warmer are slim-to-
none. The fact is if you're less than six feet tall, you can pretty
much forget about your dreams to challenge King James in his
court

Statistical data shows us that you have to be at least seventy-
two inches tall to be allowed on the ride, and each inch you
Push over that is probably better for you. There comes a point,
however, when height just doesn't matter much anymore. Just
because someone is seven feet tall doesn't mean he's a better
player than someone who's six foot six (Michael Jordan's
height). The point is you only have to be tall enough to have a
shot at the pros,

‘The same pattem is true of intelligence and success in life.
‘You only have to be smart enough to fulfil the intellectual
requirements for success. History's greatest achievers—
practical, savvy people that did big things and changed the
‘world—are heralded as the greatest geniuses to ever have
walked the earth, but while many of them had remarkably high
IQs, many others were just smart enough.

fwe can't explain their success in terms of IQ alone, what
‘else did they possess that allowed them to rise to such heights?

‘Most people would answer along the lines of “extraordinary
inherent talent.” And they would be wrong.

Callin the inspired bard, Demodocus.

God has given the man the gift of song.

That's one of the many god-given gifts of characters in the
Odyssey. We've learned much since it was wrtten—we've
decoded human DNA and discovered our place in the universe
—but we still marvel at the abilities of geniuses in the same way


Page 7, Instance 0, Class: Text
as the ancient Greeks did.

Whether we listen to a sonata of Beethoven's, watch highlight
reels of Michael Jordan, or leam a law of Newton's, we view
extraordinary human skills as gifts granted by unknown forces.
for unknown reasons. Such an explanation is convenient, but is
it correct?

For the last two centuries, behavioral scientists have studied
that question through focused research on great performers of
all types: business managers, chess players, swimmers,
surgeons, jet pilots, violinists, salespeople, writers, and many
others. Their findings, numbering in the hundreds, have led to
conclusions that fly straight in the teeth of what “everybody
knows” about abilty

‘The studies conclusively disproved the notion that great
performance stems primarily from a natural “gift” or talent. While
some people display innate talents for certain activities early on,
amazingly average people have become champions in all
manner of endeavors. Many such top performers overcame
their average—or even below-average—intellects and
nonexistent aptitudes to develop outstanding abilities in
disciplines such as chess, music, business, and medicine.

Examples of such remarkable transformations abound
throughout history. Henry Ford failed in business several times
and was flat broke five times before he founded the Ford Motor
Company. In his youth, Thomas Edison's teachers told him he
was "too stupid to learn anything.” Beethoven was so awkward
on the violin that his teachers believed him hopeless as a
composer.

‘The world of sports reveals similar findings. Many athletes.
viewed as superhuman in their abilties were found to have litle
or no inherent advantage over their peers when they first began
their journeys to greatness. Michael Jordan didn't make his
sophomore team because he was deemed too short and
average to play at that level. Stan Smith, a world-class tennis
player and winner of Wimbledon, the U.S. Open, and eight
Davis cups, was once rejected for the lowly position of a ball
boy because the event oraanizers felt he was too clumsy and


Page 8, Instance 0, Class: Text
ENEQOFANANCG

How do we explain such unintuitive findings?

While many theories were put forth, there was one common
factor that researchers recognized in all great performers: they
practiced so hard and intensely that it hurt.

‘Ted Williams, a baseball legend considered the most “gifted”
hitter of his time, was believed to have natural abiltios far
beyond ordinary men, including eagle-like vision, extraordinary
hand-eye coordination, and uncanny hitting instincts. Williams.
later said that such stories were all ‘a lot of bull.” He had a much
better explanation for his superior skills.

Williams began his path to greatness at the age of seven,
when he decided to dedicate his entire life to one singular task:
hitting a baseball as perfectly as possible. Starting at that young
age, Williams spent every free minute he had at San Diego's old
North Park field hitting balls, every day, year after year after
year. His childhood friends recall finding him on that field
‘smashing balls with the outer shells completely beaten off, with
‘a splintered bat, and with blistered, bleeding hands. He would
spend his lunch money to hire other kids to shag his balls so he
‘could hit as many as possible every day. When the city turned
Off the field's lights, he would go home and swing a rolled-up
newspaper in the mirror until he went to bed,

This obsession continued throughout William's entire
professional career, and i's no surprise that he excelled
because of it. For “The Kid,” as he was known, greatness was a
long, grueling process—not a gift from the beyond (a claim that
he found insulting).

Studies of people with extraordinary abilities, ike Ted
Willams, have given rise to what Swedish psychologist Dr. K
‘Anders Ericsson called the “10,000 hour’ rule. The rule's,
premise is that, regardless of whether one has an innate
aptitude for an activity or not, mastery of it takes around ten
thousand hours of focused, intentional practice. Analyzing the
lives of geniuses in a wide range of intellectual, artistic, and
athletic pursuits confirms this concept. From Mozart to Bobby


Page 9, Instance 0, Class: Text
nothing toward excellence in their respective fields shared a
‘common denominator: the accumulation of ten thousand hours
‘of unwavering exercise” oftheir crafts

To put that number in perspective, i you practiced an activity
four hours per day, seven days per week, it would take you
‘about soven years to reach ten thousand hours. That kind of
dedication can only come from the heart—a true love and
passion forthe activity

So, what doos all this tell us? First, thatthe seed of greatness
‘exists in every human being. Whether it sprouts or nots our
choice. Second, that there are no such things as natural-bom
under- or overachievers—there are simply people that tap into
their true potentials and people that don't. What is generally
recognized as “great talent” is, in almost all cases, nothing more
than the outward manifestations of an unwavering dedication to
a process.

Tus, the advice of “work toward your ten thousand hours”
sounds completely reasonable. Right? But there's a problem.
‘There are millions of people that work incredibly hard, yet have
litle success to show frit. Is ten thousand hours too simple of
8 prescription for greatness?

Yes. overlooks another aspect of great achievement that
cannot be ignored: opportunties—conditions that often appear
to be plain old dumb luck.

‘As Malcolm Gladwell explains in Outliers, in many ways, the
‘opportunities presented to one are just as important to success
‘8 one's own inherent talents and wilingness to put in
thousands of hours of work. For instance, if your dream isto
become a professional alhlete, is quite possible that you won't
be able to work hard enough to overcome a most devious
obstacle: your birthday. How could that possibly be a hurdle?

Easy. Most sports enforce age cut-offs—that is, the ages that


Page 9, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘As Malcolm Gladwell explains in Outiers, in many ways, the
opportunities presented to one are just as important to success
46 one's own inherent talents and willingness to put in
thousands of hours of work. For instance, if your dream is to
pecome a professional athlete, i's quite possible that you won't
be able to work hard enough to overcome a most devious
obstacle: your birthday. How could that possibly be a hurdle?

Easy. Most sports enforce age cut-offs—that is, the ages that
determine whether you can play another year in your current
age bracket as a “senior,” or whether you have to move up and
be a ‘freshman’ in the next.


Page 10, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘In Canadian junior hockey leagues, the age cutoff was
formally January 1 its now December 31). The closer your
birthday was to January 2, the better. Why? Well, let's say you
were playing in the Bantam category, which is for children aged
13 — 14. If your bithday was in December, you were going to
‘get two years of play at this level. You were going to turn fiteen
and have to move immediately into the next category, Midget
(which is for kids aged 15 ~ 16). If your birthday was January 2,
however, you'd get an entire additional year to play in Bantam
(and every other age group) because when the ages were
‘checked on January 1, you were stil fourteen years old,

{An extra year of play against players younger than you is a
‘huge advantage. Your body becomes bigger, stronger, and
faster every day, giving you an opportunity to truly stand out
from your birthday-handicapped peers. This extra
developmental time predisposes you for selection onto more
elite teams, which in tum leads to more ice time and better
‘coaching, which advances your abilties even further.

Sociologists call this phenomenon an “accumulative
advantage.” For the elite Canadian junior hockey leagues, the
result ofthis advantage was that for many years, the distribution
of bith dates for the top performing kids was heavily weighted
toward “first-quarter” babies—kids born between January and
March,

Whether we're talking birthdays in sports, or the fact that Bill
Gates just happened to go to a high schoo! that housed one of
the most advanced computers of the time—a computer that
most colleges didn't even have—we can easily see that being in
the right place (physical, educational, societal, or otherwise) at
the right time can influence our destinies as much as anything
se.

Now, that doesn’t mean our fates are written in the stars. We
‘can wholly control our dedication to thousands of hours of study,
training and work. And grasping opportunities is equally
controllable. Sure, we may not be built for the NFL or Kentucky
Derby, but we're surrounded by opportunities every day,
‘everywhere we go. There is no shortage of problems to be


Page 11, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘solved, needs and desires to be fulfilled, and innovative ways to
help others.

But there's a catch. Most opportunities never announce
themselves with trumpets and confetti. They're easily missed,
mistaken, or squandered. They can be scary. And they never
‘come with a 110% money-back guarantee. They're often
nothing more than chances to improve on something other
people are already doing

Opportunities are whispers, not foghoms.

tfwe can't hear their soft rhythms—if we are too busy rushing
about, waiting for thunderciaps of revelation, inspiration, and
Ccertainty—or if we can spot them but can't nurture them into real
advantages, then we might as well be blind to them.

This realization points us tothe real heart and mystery of
‘greatness. Just knowing that great achievers work very hard
and take advantage of opportunities isn’t enough. Why do some
people recognize, appreciate, and pursue opportunities with
passion and determination, whereas others don't? Why are
some people wiling to push through hell and high water to win,
whereas others quit early and easily? Are there practical
‘answers to these questions, or are they unsolvable enigmas of
human psychology?

Well | believe there are very practical answers to what
makes a genius tick. | believe there are principles that we can
isolate and use to better our own lives. I believe that genius is a
path that we can all take and derive much benefit, happiness,
fulfilment, and success from...not a genetic windfall or divine
Gift. Ultimately, this is the path to greatness.

Not sure if you buy into that? Well, | wouldn't either if| didn't
know about Dr. Alfred Barrios.

Psychologist Dr. Alfred Barrios conducted research on the
Nature of genius in the seventies. He set out to answer the


Page 12, Instance 0, Class: Text
To look for an answer, he decided to analyze the lives of
nany of history's greatest geniuses. Were there pattems of
ircumstances, events, behaviors, attitudes, or ideas that could
account for their success? Did the chronicles of their ives
ollectvely hold the secrets to their greatness? He was going to
ind out.

He first noted and categorized a long list of factors outside of
he geniuses’ control. Things like lineage, birthright, geography,
jenetics, education, familial tes, upbringing, and unexpected
windfalls. The more data he accumulated and analyzed along
his line, however, the more it looked lke a dead end. The
Dackgrounds of our species’ greatest thinkers and achievers
appeared infinitely varied. If there were pattems among the
fata, he couldn't see them.

Barrios was undeterred and continued to study. Eventually, 2
ferent kind of common denominator emerged, one that he
ound within each of the people he studied. Barrios discovered
hat his subjects had each developed and routinely displayed a
“ombination of very specific characteristics throughout their
ives, and not ust mildly but conspicuously.

This character-driven idea fascinated Barrios. It suggested
hat genius is much more than high inteligence, innate talent,
extraordinary work ethic, or uncanny luck, but rather a
-omposite manifestation; a synthesis of very specific types of
woridviews and behaviors. The more he looked at data through
his lens, the more things started to make sense.

Barrios then wondered if anyone could operate at a genius
evel—and achieve genius-level greatness—simply by learning
and adopting the same educated views and disciplined
nehaviors that so repeatedly characterized history's greatest
achievers.

By the end of his research, Barrios had pieced together his
genius code"—a profound insight into what really spawns
yreatness. He also concluded that we could all indeed use his
jenius code as a roadmap to walkin the footsteps of history's
vrichtaet and boldest thereby laamina tn nnaraia at @ nankin


Page 13, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘An attractive concept, no doubt, but is it true?

In this book, we will delve into a single characteristic of
Barrios’ code: drive. We will ook at how it defined one of
history's greatest military geniuses, Alexander the Great, and
how we can further develop it in ourselves.

‘My proclamation is that while Barrios’ research may not be
the end-all on the subject, it certainly illuminates the path to
{greatness via a unique, accessible, and practical decoding of
genius.

This immediately involves us in a bigger picture question, too
—one that's deeply penetrating and personal: why do we desire
to heighten our genius and pursue the path of greatness?

We all face a fundamental choice in our lives. Do we take the
path prescribed by our “now you're supposed to” society, or do
‘we take our own path to toward the life we feel we ought to be
living? Do we choose our lfe's work based on the U.S.
Department of Labor's list of highest-paying jobs, or do we
follow our bliss? Do we heed the call to conformity, or the call to
adventure?

Every day we see how people have answered these
questions, whether consciously or otherwise. We're constantly
confronted with the lazy, the apathetic, the immoral, the
indifferent, the irresponsible, and the disconnected—the signs of
‘a decaying culture.

“What does it all mean?” many wonder while chasing
purposes they're told are worthwhile, but which feel empty.
“What is the purpose of this Ife?" humans have wondered for
millennia, contemplating how insignificant we are in the great
‘cosmic symphony.

Well, as the preeminent mythologist Joseph Campbell said,
deep down inside, we don't seek the meaning of ife, but the
‘experience of being alive. And that’s what the nature of genius
is ultimately about.

It's about how we can empower ourselves to bring true
meaning to our lives and the lives of others in ways most people
‘would consider impossible. It’s about rising above a life of, as


Page 14, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Thoreau said, ‘quiet desperation’ that ends with our songs still
in our hearts, and experience the rapture of truly ving. It's
‘about saying yes to our adventures.

We rely on geniuses to entertain us, educate us, lead us, and
‘show us all what our species is capable of. We rely on geniuses.
to give us smart phones, electric cars, cures for diseases, social
networking sites, subime art, world-class food, and, indeed, the
very fabric of our culture.

If you've ever dreamed of playing a hand in the development
‘of humankind, orf you just have a burning desire o improve
‘one small aspect of it, then you have an adventure waiting

Will you take it?

Tris book is your invitation,


Page 15, Instance 0, Class: Text
Conquered the World

“Don't ask what the world needs. Ask what makes you come

alive, and go do it. Because what the world needs is people who
have come alive.”
Howard Thurman

Any great adventure involves trials and tribulations that
transform the hero into something greater than she was when
she began it

Is been seven years since J.K. Rowing graduated from
university, She sees herself as the biggest failure she knows:
she is recently divorced after only a year of marriage, jobless,
and living off social security with a young daughter to support.
‘She's diagnosed with depression and even considers killing
herself. She has something, though—an unfinished manuscript
of a story that occurred to her while riding a train several years
‘ago. She walks her baby each day to lull her asleep and then
settles into various cafes around Edinburgh, Scotland to
hammer away on a manual typewnter, writing and re-writing
‘chapters. She finishes Hany Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
in 1995, which 12 publishing houses reject before Bloomsbury
picks it up. She's paid an advance of £1,500 and told by her
editor to get a day ob because she has litle chance of making
money with children's books. The height of her ambition is for
the book to just get reviewed, but within five months of its
publication, she wins her first book award. Her story is already
being compared to the vaunted work of C.S. Lewis and J.R.R.
Tolkien. Rowiing is in shock. Ths sit, she realizes. This is her
chance to shed the grief of her past and create a beautiful new
future, Five years later, she releases the fourth book in the
‘series, which sells over 370,000 copies on the first day. Today,
the books are the #1 best-selling series of all time with over 400


Page 15, Instance 1, Class: Text
Drive and the Macedonian Who
Conquered the World
“Don't ask what the world needs. Ask what makes you come
alive, and go do it. Because what the world needs is people who
have come alive.”
-Howard Thurman


Page 15, Instance 2, Class: Text
Drive and the Macedonian Who
Conquered the World


Page 16, Instance 0, Class: Text
milion copies sold worldwide. For the first time in her life,
Rowling doesn't have to worry if she'll have enough money to
make it through the week, and she summarizes her journey of
transcendence thus: "We do not need magic to transform our
world. We carry all the power we need inside ourselves already.
‘We have the power to imagine better.”

Jesus travels through the Judean desert without food for 40
days and nights. The Devil plans on leading him astray in his
mission, and appears in disguise with an offer of stones that
Jesus can change to bread and eat. Jesus refuses to use his
powers for selfish purposes. But the Devil has another trick
ready. He leads Jesus to a great temple atop a summit
‘overlooking Jerusalem and challenges him to test God by
jumping off the peak to be caught by angels. Jesus sees no
reason to prove himself, and declines. In desperation, the Devil
takes Jesus to the pinnacle of a soaring mountain and shows
him the world. “All this | will give you if you will bow down and
‘worship me,” he says. Jesus has had enough and finally
dismisses Satan as a false god. Only then is he joined by
angels and allowed to continue toward the final establishment of
his divinity

‘Some people lke to think that geniuses are so inherently
‘extraordinary that they navigate their journeys with clairvoyant
‘ease. This simply isn’t true. Greatness does not come lightly. It
requires that you make sacrifices of time, interests, and—
sometimes—possessions. The further you move toward
greatness, the more greatness demands from you.

In whatever form your adventure takes, there will be
‘obstacles to overcome. Your dedication to your cause will be
tested. Your wits will be forced to their limits. People will ty to
‘exploit your weaknesses and negate your strengths. The
joumey toward greatness is not for the meek.

But all barriers yield to one mythical quality: drive. The will to
Persist and overcome. To never give up. To never accept
defeat.

Writer and philosopher L. Ron Hubbard said that “there's no
‘excuse for any failure that ever occurred any place in history,


Page 17, Instance 0, Class: Text
When Alexander Il of Macedon was ten years old, his father,
King Philip II, saw him tame a fierce horse and thus prophesied
that the kingdom of Macedon was too small for his ambitions.
‘The king wouldn't live to see it, but his prediction would prove to
be an understatement.

Alexander was only 16 when Philp led a military invasion into
the neighboring lands of Thrace, relinquishing to him the power
to rule all of Macedonia, the most powerful kingdom in ancient
Greece. Macedonian dominance was new and precarious,
however, and dissent mounted in the recently conquered lands.

With Philip and a large portion of the Macedonian army
absent, a Thracian tribe saw an opportunity to start a revolt
‘against their rulers. Their underestimation of the young
‘Alexander, however, proved great and fatal when he quickly
marshaled an army, marched them into battle against the
rebels, crushed the resistance, and renamed their city to
Alexandropolis,

Impressed with his son’s achievement, Philip employed his
teenage son's military prowess further by dispatching him to
deal with other Thracian and Greek revolts. One by one,
‘Alexander broke the mutinies and subdued the dissidents. He
‘even saved his fathers life in a battle against the Greek city of
Perinthus, and repelled an invasion by the nearby kingdom of
llyria. Upon this momentum, Philip, Alexander, and their armies
‘continued to march through Greece to cement Macedonian rule,
taking city after city. Those that surrendered were spared
bloodshed. Those that resisted fell to the Macedonian sword.


Page 17, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘except this: There was just not quite enough carry-through and
push-through.” The annals of history offer many examples of
this sentiment in action. However, there is pechaps no finer
‘example of one person's capacity to persevere and prevail than
the greatest military commander of all ime, a man who
accomplished in four years what his ancestors failed to
‘accomplish in the centuries prior, and what nobody has,
matcharl eince.


Page 18, Instance 0, Class: Text
The last bastion of Greek resistance was the powerful city of
‘Thebes, which had allied with Athens against Macedonia. The
powerhouses collided in the village of Chaeronea, with Philip
‘commanding the right wing of the army and Alexander the left. A
protracted, ferocious battle ensued. Alexander faced the
fearsome brotherhood of 300 elite warriors known as the Sacred
Band of Thebes. Through ingenious infantry and cavalry
maneuvering, Alexander secured an advantageous position and
launched a charge that broke the Theban line. The Sacred Band
held their ground until all 300 had fallen.

Alexander's miltary feats were so tremendous that rumors
began to spread that he, now only 18, was in fact a descendant
of Achilles or possibly the son of Zeus. The rumors were
steeped in prophecy; Alexander would rise to incredible power.
Two years later, he would take the next step in fuiling the myth
that was quickly forming around him.

In 336 BC, while attending the wedding of his daughter, Philip
was assassinated by the captain of his bodyguards, Pausanias.
‘The regicide’s motive is unknown as he was chased down and
killed on the spot, but whispers pointed to Alexander's mother,
‘Olympias, and possibly Alexander himself as the instigators.
‘Olympias desired revenge for Philip's divorce and glory for her
‘son by taking the throne and surpassing his father's
‘accomplishments. Alexander wasn't wanting of a motive either;
he was bitter after being exiled for two years over a filial feud
regarding Philip's desire to produce a full-blooded Macedonian
heir with his new wife.

Involved or not in his father’s assassination, Alexander was
proclaimed king by the nobles and army at age 20. News of
Philip's death caused an outbreak of revolts in Thebes, Athens,
Thessaly, and the Thracian tribes to the north of Macedon.
‘Alexander would have to act quickly and decisively as the new
king, or his sovereignty would collapse before his crown could
‘even sett.

He began by eliminating any potential rivals to his throne,
including his cousin and two other Macedonian princes. And he


Page 19, Instance 0, Class: Text
secretly being courted by Athens to wage war against the young
king. Olympias also moved to protect Alexander's regency by
having her two daughters by Philip burned alive—a barbarism
that infuriated Alexander.

Once the home front threats were neutralized, Alexander
tumed his attention to the intrigues of his Greek neighbors.
‘Advisers urged Alexander to deal with the rebellious cities,
diplomatically, but he had no interest in delicate, protracted
negotiations. He mustered the entire Macedonian cavalry—a
formidable force of over 3,000 experienced warriors—and rode
south toward Thessaly. He ambushed a large Thessalian army
while en route, and added to his forces.

Before Alexander reached Corinth, the Greek and Thracian
insurgents reconsidered their position. Fearing the wrath of the
fierce young king, they backed down and declared Alexander
the leader of the “Hellenic Alliance’—a league formed by his
father. Alexander pardoned the rebels, and announced that he
would continue his father’s plans for the conquest of Persia

His stated motives were uncharacteristic of his position,
however; they were greater than mere vengeance and
imperialism. Alexander's purpose was to ‘combine barbarian
things with things Hellenic, to traverse and civilize every
‘continent, to search out the uttermost parts of land and sea, to
push the bounds of Macedonia to the farthest Ocean, and to
disseminate and shower the blessings of the Hellenic justice
‘and peace over every nation.” Such altruism seems ironic when
you consider his hawkish plans. Was it empty rhetoric used to
raise an army with which he could smash, usurp, and dominate,
‘or would Alexander act in accordance with his professed
intentions to unite and uplift the known world? What really drove
him? We shall see.

Before Alexander could begin his Persian campaigns,
however, Thracian tribes again revolted against his rule, He
immediately gathered his army and advanced east into Thrace
to quell the insurrections. The Thracians planned to ambush
‘Alexander in a narrow mountain pass near the Thracian and
Macedonian border, but he out-maneuvered the garrison and


Page 20, Instance 0, Class: Text
USTERISG K, GEITENG Onwy 00 he laNGS. “CEXaNCer Bien CAUGt @
ribe of barbarians lurking in his rear, and led an attack. The
Thracians lost over 3,000 men in the battle, and Alexander lost,
ess than 50.

The Macedonians continued on to the shores of the Danube,
and faced off with 18,000 warriors of the Thracian Gatae tribe.
Alexander knew that his enemies expected him to use boats to
jerry his men over in waves, so instead, he organized a mass
crossing of the river in the middle of the night using dugouts and
ather improvised rafts and floating devices. 1,500 cavalry and
4,000 troops swam nearly 1,000 feet through the powerful
Danubian currents, and upon a surprise attack at sunrise, the
Gatae soldiers disbanded and fled. Nearby tribes heard of
Alexander's bold deeds and sent ambassadors to ask for the
young king's friendship, which was gladly granted. The Thracian
volts were hushed,

Alexanders drive would be challenged next by an lllyrian,
;evolt that threatened to cut off his passage back into Macedon.
f Alexander's retum to Greece was delayed for too long, his
kingdom was vulnerable to another Athenian and Theban
uprising, who were reported to be amassing forces,

‘The lilyrians held the pass of Pelium, and its nearby fortress,
which was the only way back into Macedonia. The Macedonians
bore down on the city but were repelled. Precious time was lost
and, to make matters worse, King Giaukias of the Taulanti tribe
marched in a massive army to reinforce the illyrians. They
spread out amongst the hills and forests surrounding the gap,
feady to cut off any advance through the pass or retreat back
nto Illyria, Alexander was in dire straits: supplies and rations
were scant; his enemies outnumbered him many times and held
superior, fortified positions; and the Greek insurgency swelled in
nis absence. He couldn't retreat or wait for reinforcements—he
nad to take Pelium, and fast.

What Alexander did next was a briliant display of his
fesourcefulness and cunning—two characteristics that flourish
hrough extraordinary drive. Just as nothing produces paralyzing


Page 21, Instance 0, Class: Text
like staring down a crisis with a lionhearted snarl.

Alexander marched a sizable portion of his army into plain
sight in the fields in front of Pelium, surrounded by the enemy,
and began a rehearsed military drill that his men had perfected.
‘The Macedonian phalanx paraded in perfect synchrony, as if
‘going through a rigorous inspection by their generals. The
Ilyrians looked on in bewilderment, wondering what their enemy
‘was doing and how they should respond. Their amazement at
the procession led to careless formations on Alexanders left
flank. This was the opportunity he was looking for. He suddenly
called for his infantry to aggressively charge the weakened
(ground, and the barbarians quickly realized their mistake and
fled the hills. Simultaneously, Alexander led a cavalry charge to
the hills on his right flank, which was also surrendered by
Glaukias’ men.

The dispersion of the enemy forces allowed Alexander to
‘secure the entirety of the surround hills, winning him a place of
safety. Before he could return to Macedonia, however, he
needed to take the city to guard against any future Illyrian
‘attempts at invasion through the pass.

Three days later, Alexander's scouts reported that Cleitus
‘and Glaukias had become careless in their position in front of
Pelium, and were vulnerable to attack. That night, Alexander led
‘a body of infantry and archers to the flank of the barbarians’
‘camp, and launched an assault. The lllyrians were caught by
surprise, with many stil in their beds. The resulting slaughter led
to a quick rout. Pelium was again under Macedonian control,
and the defeated Illyrian kings accepted Alexander's terms and
swore fealty to the fearsome commander.

Alexanders ingenuity at Pelium offers another insight into the
‘special nature of his drive, something that is often summarized
‘as impatience but is actually quite more than that. Some
historians criticize the young king's ruse as reckless and its
success as lucky. But, as you'll see in the baffling successes of
his later campaigns, Alexander was either the luckiest man in
history, or there was some other force at work. | believe the
latter, but what might that force be? His actions at Pelium offer


Page 22, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander's position was desperate. His officers suggested
retreat. Reinforcements could be sent, they said, but Alexander
‘would hear nothing of it. Not only were their rations insufficient
{or it, i's very likely that his kingdom would fall to Athens and
Thebes while they waited. No, he had to have Pelium, and
quicker than any of his men believed was possible. But
Alexander felt otherwise. While his men saw an impenetrable
citadel, he saw frail bowling pins ready to be smashed by the
right roll of his mighty forces. Behind Alexander's “impatience”
‘was an incredible impetus and sense of forward motion that
made nothing of anything or anyone that dared get in his way.
He rarely paused because, frankly, nothing was intimidating
‘enough to really give him pause. In analyzing the drive of men
‘and women of Alexander's caliber, you find in every case a
downright heroic concentration of confidence and flippancy that
inspires others to believe that they, too, can do the impossible.

Within a few days of taking the pass, Alexander learned that
the Persians were spreading money amongst the anti-
Macedonian Greeks to encourage revolution, and that a rumor
had spread that the liyrians killed him. These influences
‘spurred the Thebans to throw out Macedonian garrisons,
declare independence from Alexander's rule, and recruit several
other city-states to do the same.

Enraged, Alexander marched an army of over 30,000 men
300 miles south to Thebes at a breakneck pace, arriving in only
two weeks. The sudden emergence of Alexander and his
formidable army stunned the Theban allies, causing them to
withdraw their support for the rebellion, leaving Thebes to stand
alone against Alexander. Alexander camped north of the city
‘and waited, giving the Thebans the chance to send an embassy
land ask for pardon. The Theban generals responded by
‘sending out a force of infantry and cavalry to attack Alexander's
‘outposts, which was repelled,

Nevertheless, Alexander remained patient with the Thebans.
He demanded the ringleaders of the resistance, and promised
no harm to any cthere that eurrandered Theban leadere refueed


Page 23, Instance 0, Class: Text
the demand despite the fact that the bulk of the citizens favored
iving in.

‘Theban soldiers built fortifications outside of the city to
prepare for the upcoming battle, and Alexander made plans for
an invasion. He still refused to act, however, wishing to save the
{glorious city and prevent loss of his ranks. The delay was
brought to an end not by Alexander, but by his general
Perdiccas, who seized an opportunity to siege the city and
break through the city wall. The breach was successful, and
Alexander ordered thousands of his soldiers to reinforce the
attack,

‘Thebes’ warriors fought bravely, but their defenses fell and
the city was overrun, Boetians, Phoeians, and Plataeans—
fighting within Alexander's ranks~slaughtered thousands of
‘Thebans, including women and children, out of revenge for
years of Theban oppression. 30,000 survivors were captured
and sold into slavery, and the city was razed to the ground,

The force and cruelty with which Alexander smashed the
Theban rebellion sent shock waves throughout all of Greece.
‘Athens wouldn't dare risk his wrath and immediately withdrew
troops they had sent to fight with their now-vanquished allies.
Sparta was amazed to see the powerful city, which had
‘conquered them at Lenetra, shattered to pieces as if by the
gods themselves. Athens and its allies again asked the king's
forgiveness, which Alexander again granted. What happened at
Thebes served as a warning, while at the same time a call for
peace. Alexander had no desire to inflict any more suffering on
his people.

In one year, Alexander secured himself against the
barbarians of the north and subdued all of Greece. But that was
‘only an overture to what was to be his life's work and ambition:
Persia, the land of Xerxes, of Darius, of Cyrus—a land of untold
resources and wealth, and full of brave men. The conquering
‘and integration of Persia represented the truest test of his
ambition for greatness, an adventure that would rival the
‘exploits of his idol, Achilles, as well as transform the course of
human history forever.


Page 24, Instance 0, Class: Text
Invading Persia promised to be the most formidable of
undertakings, challenging Alexander's genius and drive in every
way. And yet, despite Persia's impressive wealth and might, the
great kingdom had a key weakness: it was a disjointed mass 30
mes the size of Macedonia's territories, comprised of many
independent regions ruled by local governors. Many of these
ssatraps” were dissatisfied with the sovereign and with each
other. Alexander knew this and counted on thelr discord to
mean lax, uncoordinated defenses.

But Alexander wasn't one to take things for granted. His
obsessive attention to detail and uncompromising work ethic
drove him to spend the coming winter months relentlessly
working to assemble his army, equip his ships, and devise a
plan for the largest attack ever attempted by a man. In this we
glimpse another chromosome of the DNA of drive. Alexander's
adamantine will and belief in himself stemmed from the fact that
ne was willing to out-plan, out-work, and outlast anyone. He
didn't chase dubious shortcuts, and in some cases, purposely
avoided them just to experience the glory of overcoming a great
challenge. He didn't beg for the favor of the gods; he strove to
averawe them.

Alexanders thorough preparations accounted for what would
pe a long absence from his home kingdom. He appointed his
rusted general Antipater as regent and left him with a sizable
army to maintain the peace. He even gave away all of his
personal possessions to be sold to help cover the tremendous
costs of his ambitions, leaving himself, as he laughingly said,
only with his hopes. Many of the rich men that served in his elite
Companion cavalry unit were inspired to do the same.
Regardless, Alexander had to borrow a sizable sum to fully
feady his military.

In 335 BC, at 22 years of age, Alexander crossed the
Hellespont strait into Asia Minor with over 35,000 Macedonian,
Greek, and Thracian troops, a fleet of 120 ships with crews
numbering nearly 40,000, and only a month's worth of supplies.
Once hiss ship reached the coast of Asia Minor, Alexander threw


Page 25, Instance 0, Class: Text
would accept the whole of Asia as a gift from the gods.

Darius, the Persian king, ignored the crossing, unafraid of an
army that his military outnumbered by many times,
Consequently, the Macedonians moved through Asia Minor with
little resistance, liberating several Greek towns from Persian,
rule. Darius still refused to take Alexander seriously despite
these affronts against his empire and the wamings of his
experienced generals that the young Macedonian was not to be
underestimated.

‘Memnon, a competent general favored by Darius, knew that
Alexander's provisions and funds were scant, and
recommended a “scorched earth’ strategy wherein the satrapies
that lay before Alexander would be burned to the ground,
denying him forage and resources. Persian officers wouldn't
hear of it, however, and resolved to meet the Macedonian king
in pitched battle. An army of 20,000 cavalry and an equal
number of Greek mercenaries was assembled to drive back
Alexander and his invaders.

Alerted by his scouts that the Persian forces were in his
vicinity, Alexander forged ahead to the Grancius River. As the
Macedonians approached the shore, the sun was setting and
the Persian army could be seen in the piains on the horizon.
Parmenio, Alexander's chief general, advised that the army
camp for the night and persuade the enemy to do the same.

Alexander had other plans, though. He preferred the morale-
boosting effect of a bold offensive, and didn’t want the Persians
fo think that he would pause even for an instant at such a pitiful
barrier, which may bolster their confidence to repel his advance.

Instead, he ordered his scouts to survey the Persian lines
and report their findings. As he had suspected, the disposition of
the Persian troops was faulty, and he was determined to force a
ight at once. Alexander's commanders moved the Macedonian
armies into position, and there was a moment of profound.
silence as they faced their neighbors across the river. Then, a
Macedonian bugle sounded, followed by a deafening war cry,
and spear-wielding infantry began to cross. The Persians rained
sevaniine clesam tine Gham, srl dlanaiehad canaine 9, drtee thar,


Page 26, Instance 0, Class: Text
coe

‘A furious fight ensued. Alexander slew several notable
Persians, including Darius’ son- and brother-in-law. The latter
‘almost took Alexander's life, slicing part of his helmet off before
falling to his spear. This heroic charge enabled the entire right
‘wing of the Macedonian army to cross the river and press the
attack. The full might of Alexander's cavalry fell upon the
Persians and broke their lines, but the Persians still had their
Greek mercenaries, which had been merely spectators to the
slaughter thus far. They would prove no match for the
Macedonians. Over 18,000 were cut to pieces, and the
remaining 2,000 were captured.

When the fighting finally stopped, the Persians had lost over
41,000 horsemen, many nobles, and 18,000 Greek mercenaries.
Alexander lost less than 200 men.

Although the road to the heart of Persia was now open, it
‘couldn't be taken until Alexander had the coastal cities under his
‘control to protect his rear and flanks from the formidable Persian
navy. All of the important coastal cities were Greek, and many
‘welcomed Alexander with open arms. In each case, he threw
‘out the Persian tyrants, established a democratic form of
‘government, began some type of public improvement in
‘commemoration of their freedom from the Persian yoke, and
{granted the inhabitants ancient privileges that had been denied
to them for the last two hundred years of foreign rule.

Several cities that had been granted exceptional privileges by
Darius resisted Alexander, but one by one, they fell to his
superior tactics. As he conquered each, he continued his
strategy of befriending the Greeks, pardoning surviving citizens,
‘and granting the cities autonomy and freedom. There was no
plundering to help pay for the campaign, as was customary in
wartimes, only the collection of reasonable taxes to fund his war
chest.

With the coast of Asia Minor now under his control, Alexander
had effectively nullified Persia's most powerful military asset: its
‘world-renowned navy. He was now prepared to move into the
interior of the Persian Empire. But winter was approaching, and


Page 27, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander's men needed to rest and heal. So he granted a
leave of absence to a considerable number of his newly married
soldiers to be with their wives until spring, when they would
move to bring down the entire Persian empire.

‘Alexander himself, however, would not rest. His unremitting
drive wouldn't allow it. So he gathered a body of troops and set
‘out to close any remaining ports on the mainland and further
starve out the Persian navy. Over the next several months, he
land his men marched through bitter weather and conquered all
of westem Asia minor—nearly 40 towns were subdued, with
‘most surrendering without contest, knowing that they would be
treated liberally by the conqueror. Those that rebuked his offer
of a peaceful surrender, no matter how well fortified, fell

When spring of the next year came, the wounded warriors
had healed and the soldiers on leave returned, many bringing
new recruits. It was time for Alexander to drive his spear
through the heart of Persia, fulfiling his ambition to conquer and
civilize the known word,

Darius belioved that the defeats of his generals in Asia Minor
were mere accidents and misfortunes. The territory lost was a
sliver on the fringe of his vast empire, and while he didn't
‘comprehend the significance of Alexander's progress, he did
‘comprehend that Memnon’s early advice should've been
followed. He put the Greek rogue in supreme command of the
Persian military with the orders to crush the Macedonian
invader.

‘Memnon, an incredibly inteligent and able general, and
probably the only man in the service of Darius who could pose a
threat to Alexander, set plans in motion to bring the war to
Macedonia and instigate a revolt amongst Alexander's enemies
in Greece. To do this, he would muster a large fleet of warships
‘and soldiers to take istands near Macedonian shores and use
them as bases from which to launch an invasion. But, as fate
‘would have it, Memnon died of fever after only the first
‘successful siege of the island of Chios, and his successor was
by no means up to the task he inherited. Alexander's good


Page 28, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander reunited with the main body of his army at the city
‘of Gordium, which contained the famous Gordian Knot. Legends
held that the intricate knot was tied by King Midas, and the man
who unraveled it would go on to become king of all of Asia. How
‘Alexander solved the knot is disputed. According to certain
historians, he thoughtfully disassembled the looped mass.
According others, he promptly drew his sword, slashed the rope,
and unraveled it. Either way, he made his intentions clear, which
offers us another chance to understand the effectiveness of his
uncanny drive.

Whether sieging an “impregnable” city, facing an “invincible
‘army, or solving an “impossible” knot, Alexander refused to
believe he couldn't succeed. He was driven to win by any
means necessary, and he rarely played by the “rules.” One of
hiss hallmarks was, through diligent analysis and planning,
devising radically new strategies and tactics that his enemies.
had no preconceived defenses for. Sometimes circumstances
called for a carefully orchestrated gambit, as you saw in Pelium,
‘As you'll see in one of his greatest military victories, however,
the most unexpected move is sometimes a direct assault so
‘audacious that nobody would dare attempt it. Nobody but
Alexander, that is.

‘The Macedonian forces moved on toward their goal, taking
minor cities as they went and leaving garrisons to consolidate
their position. They met lite resistance as the moved deeper
into the Persian lands, but finally, in 333 BC, Alexander met the
{ull power of the Persian king at the city of Issus. Darius
‘commanded the forces in person upon the advice of his
courtiers and generals.

Macedonian scouts estimated the Persian army at no less
than 200,000 men and possibly as many as 00,000. Alexander
had just over 40,000 soldiers. He called his Companions and
‘other commanding officers to ascertain their views about the
proximity and enormity of the enemy's forces. They were eager
to follow him into battle, and plans were outlined of where and
how to stage the confrontation.

Darius and his hordes were expected to wait in nearby plains


Page 29, Instance 0, Class: Text
where his numbers could engulf and swallow the smaller
Macedonian army. Instead, however, Darius impatiently
marched his massive army to Alexander's rear, choosing a
much narrower theater of engagement, asthe flatiands infront
of Issus were bound by the ocean on one side and the
mountains on the other.

When the Macedonians learned that they wouldn't face the
Persians in three days as anticipated but rather the next day,
disconcert spread amongst their ranks. Alexander was himself
startled at the maneuver, but he emboldened his men by
dalivering an impassioned speech

“Our enemies are Medes and Persians, men who for
‘centuries have lived soft and luxurious lives,” he bellowed. "We
‘of Macedon for generations past have been trained inthe hard
‘school of danger and war. Above al, we are free men, and they
are slaves. There are Greek troops, to be sure, in Persian
‘service—but how differents their cause from ours!

“They willbe fighting for pay—and not much of at that. We,
‘on the contrary, shall fight for Greece, and our hearts will be in
it As for our foreign troops—Thracians, Paeonians, lyrians,
‘Agrianes—they are the best and stoutest solders in Europe,
‘and they will find as their opponents the siackest and softest of
the tribes of Asia. And what, finally, of the two men in supreme
‘command? You have Alexander, they...Darius!”

The next moming, both armies faced off, looking for an
‘opportunity to strike the first blow. Through skilful
reconnaissance and positioning, Alexander gained an
advantage on his ight flank and launched the first successful
attack on the Persian lines.

A the two commanders manipulated their armies into the
battle, it was Alexander who systematically gained ground and
positon first, namely on the Persian left. At the same time,
however, the Greek mercenaries under Darius’ command
attacked Alexander's center phalanx with a dangerous ferocity.
The tide was tuming against the Macedonian center, and the
phalanx was in grave danger.

‘As usual, however, Alexander came to the reecue. His wing


Page 30, Instance 0, Class: Text
had completely driven back the Persian left and thus was free to
rush to his center's aid. Alexander and his cavalry and brigades
jore into the Greek’s flank and relieved the center, which
reformed and thereafter held its own against the aggressors.
Meanwhile, a veritable avalanche of Persian cavalry poured
forth and imperiled Alexander's left flank. Despite being
outnumbered and all but crushed, Alexander's Thessalian riders
bravely stood their ground, rallying and returning again and
again to the charge.

Darius, as was customary with Persian kings, occupied the
absolute center position in a gleaming chariot, surrounded by
his top officers and family. Having secured his own center and
cut a path through the Persian line, Alexander headed straight
for Darius and his nobles. Within minutes, the Companions
came down upon Darius’ royal guard with a godlike fury and
slaughtered his men wholesale. When Darius saw that his left
lank had collapsed and that his life was in danger, he chose to
lee the battle, signaling defeat.

Persian cries of the king's flight crushed morale, and soon the
entire army was fleeing forthe hills. Vast numbers of Persians
were slain by the end of the conflict, stated at over 100,000
including many generals. Darius even abandoned his wife,
mother in law, and son. The Macedonian loss was 450 men.

After the victory at Issus, Alexander moved south into
Phoenicia to secure its important coastal cities and neutralize all
opposition as far as Egypt. He met ite resistance as he moved
from city to city, offering, as always, amenable terms for
surrender.

While in Syria, he received a letter from Darius, in which he
asked for his family back and proposed a friendship and
aliance. To this letter, Alexander responded by reciting the
injuries of Persia to Greece, the beginning of hostilities by
Darius, and the instigation of his father’s murder by the Persian
court, He ended his letter in no uncertain terms:

“Lam lord of Asia. Come to me, and you shall receive all that
you can ask. But if you deny my right as your lord, stand and


Page 31, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander's dauntiess drive would next meet a much more:
{formidable foe, however—one that would strain his
resourcefulness to its limits.

Tyre remained as the last city of importance to take in
Phoenicia, which was not only the chief naval station of the
region but of the world. Once it was secured, Alexander could
‘safely continue south into Egypt and Babylon. Tyrian
ambassadors met with Alexander and offered submission and
their fleet, but withthe stipulation that he would not be allowed
to enter the city. The Tyrian officials wanted to retain their
independence in case Persia won, an unacceptable condition to
‘Alexander. So the city shut its gates and prepared their
defenses.

Alexander and his officers agreed that Tyre must be taken,
But the question was how? The city was situated on an island
‘two miles long, less wide, and separated from the coast by a
‘channel a half-mile wide and some eighteen feet. High, sturdy
walls surrounded it, and housed 30,000 men fit for battle,
machines to resist a siege, and a number of warships.

‘The Macedonian generals thought their task impossible, to
which Alexander replied, “There is nothing impossible to him
who will try.” As he had no ships, Alexander made up his mind
to build a highway of stone, earth, and wood across the
‘channel, two hundred feet wide.

Laborers were procured from every part of the neighboring
‘country, and the highway progressed rapidly. As they
approached the deeper waters, however, they came within
missile range of the city, and the Tyrians were waiting. They
attacked Alexander's mole day and night from the walls with
archers, ballistae, catapults, and other siege weapons, and from
the sea with ships loaded with similar weapons. Alexander
responded by building fortifications to protect his workers, and
‘wo large towers to lead the construction, manned with archers
and siege engines of his own to keep the Tyrian ships at a
distance.

Under this cover, the work progressed again. The Tyrians
mounted a devastating counter-attack, however. They waited for


Page 32, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘a day when the winds were blowing directly into the highway,
land loaded an old ship with a massive store of flammable
material and hung cauldrons of combustible substances off the
yard-arms and booms. They towed the fire ship to the
Macedonians, set it ablaze, and smashed it into the towers,
{ortications, and siege engines, engulfing everything in flames.

The strong winds fanned the fires, which proved too violent to
be extinguished. The towers and breastworks were lost, and the
‘end of the highway was cracked and weakened, and was being
washed away by the waves. The work of months and multitudes
had been destroyed in a short hour.

Several of Alexander's officers suggested that they offer a
treaty with Tyre, but he was convinced that he couldn't move
further into Persia so long as their navy could ferry troops into
‘Tyre and thus gain access to his rear. No, Alexander said, Tyre
must fall, and he already had plans to overcome the setback,
‘They would construct a wider highway in a better position; it
‘would support more than two towers, which would shield his
workers and soldiers from the city's defenses. And they would
deploy warships of their own.

“Warships?” his officers asked. They had no ships. Not yet, at
least.

After work began on the new highway, Alexander mustered a
small army and marched to nearby cities that he didn't control.
He quickly received their surrender and formed a fleet of 80
ships, which were outfitted with siege engines. When his fleet
was ready and highway completed, he set sail for Tyre to launch
his attack.

The siege proved tremendously difficult for the Macedonians.
Under constant attack from the Tryian engines, they fought
bitterly to secure positions from which they could work to reduce
the walls ofthe city. This effort proved almost impossible,
however. Alexander's siege weapons, which were on ground
thanks to the highway, and on mounted on ships, could make
1no impression on the city walls, which were widely renowned as
the sturdiest in the world,

‘After long efforts and trials on every part of the city, the


Page 33, Instance 0, Class: Text
loating engines finally found what they were looking for: a
ection of wall that was of weaker masonry, as the Tyrians
lever expected siege engines to be mounted on ships and
sailed to their walls.

The Macedonians succeeded in breeching the wall, but the
rst storming party was driven back by showers of missiles, fre-
ots, and other devices. Three days later, however, when the
ea was calm, Alexander arrayed his battering engines at the
veakened position and ordered his vessels carrying missile-
hrowing engines and archers to skimish around the island s0
38 to confuse the garrisons. Once the siege engines crumbled a
arge section ofthe wall, bridges were thrown down, and
Macedonian infantry poured in.

‘Alexander led the second wave of soldiers into the city, and
though the Tyrians fought bravely, their men were no match
or the highly skilled Macedonians. The city was swarmed and
aken. Alexander's men wanted vengeance for their brothers
vho had been captured, tortured, executed on walls in full sight
the invaders, and tossed into the sea to prevent a proper
ural. Thousands of Tyrians were siaughtered,

Thus fell Tye, after a seven-month siege, and Alexander's
eputation grew in the lands to that of an invincible god,

While Alexander was besieging Tyre, he received a second
etter from Darius in which he offered a fantastic sum for the
elease of his family his daughter's hand in marriage, and all
he Persian territory west of the Euphrates. “If were Alexander,

would accept,” Parmenion told the king. “So would |, i | were
~armenion,” he replied.

‘Alexander told Darius that the whole of Persia was his, that
1e would marry his daughter if he so wished, with or without
Darius’ consent, and that he had no need for the money. He
vould keep Darius’ family hostage, albeit nobly cared for, to
urther distress the Great King and to interfere wit his ability to
fefend his kingdom, or so Alexander hoped.

Its interesting to note that a great drive often produces a
ride that can, at times, manifest as hubris. Darius wasn't half
ee ee eee a ease ee eee eens Wes


Page 34, Instance 0, Class: Text
At the mere implication that they were peers. No great men or
women, no matter how outwardly humble and gracious, are self-
deprecating, difident, weaklings. They possess a rare
‘concentration of intelligence and abiity, and they aren't
ashamed to make it known, even if only by their actions. This
self-confidence is often misinterpreted and denounces as
shameless self-love, implying that the only way to be
“acceptable” is to assume an air of tottering docilty. The genius
knows better though

‘September 331 BC soon arrived and saw Alexander
marching toward Egypt. He reached the formidable city of Gaza,
which refused to submit. Like Tyre, Gaza presented imposing
problems for the siege parties, namely the height of the ground
‘on which the city was built. But Alexander would consider no
difficulty whatsoever.

He conferred with his engineers and devised a plan to build a
massive mound around the city so that the siege engines could
be rolled up to the walls and set to work. The scheme worked:
‘Alexander's engines breached the walls within two months. The
first three raiding parties were driven back by fierce Gazan
warriors. The fourth broke through, however, opening the gates.
of the city and bringing the destruction of the Gaza garrisons.

Alexander continued through the region, setting up a strong
‘government in Syria and Phoenicia, and headed for the country
of the Nile. Egypt had no bond whatsoever with its Persian
masters. They were a peaceful folk, and the arrival of a new
‘conqueror mattered litle to the population and rulers alike.

‘The Egyptians, who had lived under the Persian yoke for two
‘centuries, welcomed Alexander and his Macedonians with open
arms. Alexander retumed to the Egyptians the freedom to
‘exercise their religions and ancient customs, gave them political
‘autonomy, and arranged for the taxes to flow to his coffers. At
the mouth of the Nile, Alexander founded the city of Alexandria-
by-Egypt, which would later become a major economic and
cultural center in the Mediterranean world. Month by month,
‘Alexander was making good on his promise to use his sword
‘and the swords of his brethren to not just kill, but lift the known


Page 35, Instance 0, Class: Text
WORT 1 & NEW SGNEION OF SCONSTING, SOC, ENG SCRCSTNS
prosperity

After receiving reinforcements from Europe, Alexander
reorganized his forces and started for Babylon. He marched
north up the Tigris River, deeper into the bowels of the Persian
territory, and founded cities as he went to provide asylum for the
‘wounded. Together, these cities formed a chain of military posts
that served to provide communications, and to build up a
knowledge of Hellenic culture throughout the country.

A year had passed since Darius’ embarrassing defeat at
Issus, which he spent amassing an unspeakably large army.
‘Alexander's men had captured Persian scouts, who claimed that
Darius’ army stood at a milion soldiers to Alexander's 41,000.
‘Anxiety gnawed at the Macedonians. No obstacle thus far was
insurmountable for Alexander, but a million men?

Alexander leamed that Darius had positioned his hordes to
intercept his planned crossing of the Tigris, which would spell
‘certain disaster for his army. So the young king changed his
Point of crossing to well north of Darius, and the army forded the
river without opposition. After days of marching, the
Macedonians finally encountered the Persians at the plains of
Gaugamela. Darius’ army was a sight to behold: Infantry as far
as the eye could see. Rolling waves of cavalry numbering close
to 100,000. Companies of fearsome war elephants,

Alexander and his Companions conducted a careful survey of
the enemy and grounds. He was slow to fight, knowing that his
‘only chance to succeed against such odds was strategic and
tactical perfection. General Parmenio suggested a surprise night
attack, but Alexander rejected it. He wanted to defeat Darius in
‘open battle and leave him with no excuse to use to rally another
army.

The armies squared off the following moming. The large,
‘open field had been leveled and cleared of obstacles to allow
Darius’ masses maximum mobility, which would be used to try
to encircle the Macedonians. The Macedonians were heavily
‘out-flanked, but Alexander had anticipated this and brilliantly


Page 36, Instance 0, Class: Text
maneuverable troops, which could spread out and guard against
‘outfianking movements,

‘The battle began when a Persian chariot charged into
Parmenio's left lank and center. Alexander countered by
leading his Companions into battle on the right.

Parmenio and the men of the left repelled the chariots. By
‘contrast, Alexander made headway into the overwhelming
numbers that lay before him. Darius tried to out-flank Alexander
‘on both sides, but the protective columns fanned out and held
the edges admirably. Darius tried the maneuver again, this time
ordering his center cavalry to try, and edged his center infantry
in that direction too. Alexander's exceptional ability to retain
‘complete battlefield awareness even while engaged in combat
himself detected the ploy and, consequently, the gap in the
Persian front.

Alexander seized on the opportunity by rapidly forming a
deep wedge of infantry, headed it personally with his
‘Companions, and drove it ke a battering ram into the Persian
‘center. Darius was positioned just beyond them.

‘The bravest Persians stood fast and contended the charge,
but they were no match for Alexander and his Companions and
phalanx, which had never yet found their match. The
Macedonians hewed their way through the living masses.
Darius watched in horror as Alexander broke his center and
angled toward him. Instead of ordering reinforcements to
retrieve what might have been a temporary disadvantage,
Darius turned and fled.

Despite Darius’ second cowardly retreat, his skilled and able
generals knew that the battle could still be won, and pressed on
with ferocity. Alexander's bold move had opened a gap in his
‘own lines, which allowed Persian infantry and cavalry to pour in
‘and envelope his left flank. This put incredible strain on
Parmeni's lines, which were on the brink of being fatally
‘compromised.

Sensing the threat, Alexander wheeled his Companions and
galloped to Parmenio’s aid. Simultaneously, vast columns of


Page 37, Instance 0, Class: Text
again. They melted into retreat, completely dissolving the
Persian center.

Despite the carnage on the left, which left 60 of Alexander's
‘lite Companions dead, demoralization spread quickly amongst
the Persian ranks. Macedonian fervor rose in response,
galvanizing them to regain their position and drive back the
‘enemy until their ranks collapsed completely. Alexander wasn't
done, however—he immediately set out to pursue and capture
Darius. His men marched rapidly, covering 70 miles by the next
day, but Darius kept well ahead.

‘Although he would live to see another day, Darius lost
between 40,000 — 90,000 men at Gaugamala as well as any
hope of retaining his throne. Alexander's losses were just over
41,000 men, Word of the unthinkable victory spread quickly. Ifa
million men couldn't stop Alexander and his claim to Asia, what
‘could?

This sentiment was the final, wheezing breaths of the Persian
Empire, which illustrates an important lesson in overcoming
incredible odds. No matter the journey, one will aways face
‘opposition, whether in the form of competitors, enemies,
meddlers, saboteurs, incompetents, and the like. The simplest
way to defeat them alls to accomplish what you set out 10
‘accomplish. Don't let them divert your efforts into undesirable
directions. Don't let them convince you that compromises are
advantageous or necessary. Be like Alexander in your drive:
show them just how dauntless and incorrigible you really are,
and just as the sprawiing Persian Empire did, with its millions of
able-bodied men, they'l lose their will to keep fighting and
‘accept your ascendance.

Alexanders story isn't complete, however. There is more we
‘can learn about drive—including its dangers—from his
legendary exploits

The wondrous wealth of the megalopolis Babylon and the
treasure-laden Susa, the next cities to capitulate to Alexander
‘and welcome him as their king, staggered even him. He used
the riches to pay his troops handsomely. He also sent a sum
home to Antipater six-times the annual income of Athens to put


Page 38, Instance 0, Class: Text
down a Spartan rebelion.

Alexander named Mazaeus, a Persian general who had
fought bravely in Gaugamala, viceroy of Babylon, and appointed
several other ranking Persians who had surrendered to other
Positions of political power. The miltary control, however, would
remain with Macedonian soldiers, This was another stroke of
‘Alexander's genius, as it fostered allegiance and respect among
the conquered, and reinforced his standing offer to the
remaining peoples that lie ahead: accept me and live well, or
‘oppose me and perish. "I have not come to Asia to destroy
nations,” he explained to the defectors. "| have come here that
those who are subdued by my arms shall have naught to
‘complain of my victories."

The rugged Macedonians enjoyed a long rest and the many
luxuries of Babylon before preparing for their final journey to
take Persepolis, the primary capital of Persia, and thus the
‘entire kingdom. To get there, however, would require the
traversal of several rivers and a mountain range comparable to
the Alps in size and altitude, which was occupied by hostile,
hardy tribes. And it was the winter. Nevertheless, the
Macedonian legions set out into the labyrinth of rocks,
precipices, torrents, valleys, and passes at the end of 331 BC.

The Uxian mountaineers maintained a fortress deep in the
mountains and controlled the lands. If Alexander was to pass,
they said, he would have to pay them tribute just as the
Persians did. Alexander laughed at their demands and found
another road, albeit a very difficult one, onto the mountain. He
‘soon located the Uxian villages and quickly swept over them.
‘The Uxians were dumbfounded at the speed with which
Alexander navigated the rugged terrain, and mounted a last.
stand at their stronghold, Despite a staunch defense, Alexander
led a siege that only lasted a few hours before the Uxians
offered surrender, which Alexander accepted.

‘Onward Alexander went, moving ever-closer to the
treacherous mountain pass known as the Persian Gates. The
Gates marked one of two routes that lead to Persepolis, through
the lands controlled by the satrap Ariobarzanes, who remained


Page 39, Instance 0, Class: Text
loyal to the Persian cause. While Alexander could have avoided
the pass by taking the safer road to Persepolis, he decided not
to—quite literally choosing the road less traveled. He did so for
‘a good reason, though: to prevent Ariobarzanes and his force of
40,000 men from having a clear view of his rear as well as a
direct path to Susa, Babylon, and other freshly conquered lands,

‘Thus, Alexander split his army, sending Parmenio with the
baggage and siege train along the secure road through the
foothills to the south, and leading himself the Companion
‘cavalry, the lancers and horse-bowmen, and the archers to the
dangerous canyon. He arrived at the Gates to find it walled off.
Alexander prepared a direct assault, as was his custom. Once
the offensive began, however, he was dismayed to learn that he
had led his men into a devastating ambush.

Ariobarzanes had anticipated the Macedonians and allowed
them to march deep into the pass with no resistance
whatsoever. When the head of their column reached the
narrowest section, the Persians unleashed a terrifying attack
from above, raining down arrows, stones, and boulders, Whole
files of Macedonians were crushed, but they pressed on. They
tried to scale the granite walls of the pass, helping each other
Up and defending each other with their shields. But the
‘onslaught continued to decimate the Macedonian ranks, forcing
‘Alexander to withdraw his forces from the seemingly
unassailable defense. He had to find another way to the
Persians.

As if sent by the gods themselves, a shepherd came forth
who had been sold into Persian slavery and who knew the
region intimately. He showed Alexander several unknown,
difficult paths through the foothills that would take him to.
Ariobarzanes' rear. Alexander promised the shepherd incredible
wealth if he led his army honestly, and a quick death if he
betrayed them

The pian was simple: Alexander would take a large
contingent of his best soldiers with the shepherd while Craterus,
his commander of the phalanx, would keep the rest of the men.
looking busy in front of the wall so as to maintain pretenses of


Page 40, Instance 0, Class: Text
;nother frontal assauit. When Alexander was in position to strike
rom the rear, he would sound trumpets, and Craterus would
ead a charge in the front

The shepherd, Alexander, and his men set out that night, into
violent storm. They had 12 miles to cover and time was of the
sssence. If Ariobarzanes suspected the maneuver and caught,
\lexander in the wilds witha force of his own, Alexander's saga
vould likely come to a bloody end. But Alexander took such
alculated risks with carefree ease, as ifthe sheer force of his
ntention would bend the universe to his favor. A reflection of his.
sccomplishments makes one wonder if such is possible

The group marched through the night in hushed silence and,
y the morning, reached a path that led directly to the Persian
amp. Alexander waited through the day untl the following
ight, and then split up his men. A detachment would head to
he nearby Araxes River and build a bridge over it to occupy the
nly escape route available to the Persians. The second
fetachment, led by Alexander, would descend directly into the
 ersian camp.

‘Alexander's vanguard soon came upon their enemy's
posts and, through surprise attacks, eliminated each,
lowing him and his men to reach the edge of the camp
inperceived. Meanwhile, Craterus had done well maintaining
is pretense with numerous campfires representative of
slexanders full army. When Alexander's trumpets blared, the
tre camp froze. Mayhem immediately followed when
housands of Macedonians poured in from all sides. Craterus
1nd his brigades simultaneously charged the wall, scaled it, and
verran the dumbfounded garrisons.

The ambush was a resounding success. The enemy was cut
o pieces. Ariobarzanes and his bodyguard tried to escape
hrough the rear, only o meet the Macedonians that had
ridged the river. The Persians chose to die with their swords in
wand. Afterward, Alexander gathered his Companions and set
ut to Persepolis at once, traveling over 40 miles in one night,
hrough the snow, and reached the magnificent capital before
send beaed corms anche of what Ineenanndl bathe mesunieben. The


Page 41, Instance 0, Class: Text
city opened its gates and welcomed its new king,

Great feasts were held in Persepolis, and against his usual
habit of preserving whatever he conquered, Alexander gave in
to his men’s demands of retaliation. Athens had been buried
and desecrated by the Persian king in times past, and the
Macedonians wanted to inflict the same wounds upon
Persepolis. Thus, the great city was given up to plunder and the
magnificent palace of the Persian kings was burned to the
{ground after a drunken celebration. Women and their jewels
were to be left untouched, however, as ordered by Alexander.

‘Alexander lavished his men as usual, who spent their days
and nights in revelry. He was never one to rest for long, though.
Within a month of taking Persepolis, he made various
‘excursions to neighboring tribes to complete the Hellenic
‘subjugation once and for al. This included a clan of fierce.
mountaineers not unlike the Uxians who controlled roads from
Persis to the sea, which Alexander intended to use. To reach
the tribe, icy rain had to be endured and snow-clad hills.
traversed; steps had to be cut into frozen slopes; and roads had
to be hewn through the woods. Every difficulty was overcome
with the king leading the way. The mountain people were
reached and agreements were struck, thus accomplishing
‘Alexander's great vision. In a mere four years, the Macedonians
had vanquished the mighty Persian army and claimed its lavish
‘empire, reversing the conquest accomplished by King Xerxes
over a century before,

By 324 BC, 11 years after his ascension to the Macedonian.
throne, Alexander had led his army 22,000 miles, was
Undefeated in battle, and founded some 70 cities in the lands he
‘conquered, 22 of which he named after himself. These epic
achievements pay homage to his simple philosophy on life. “I
‘would rather live a shor life of glory than a long one of
obscurity," he wrote. Thanks to his unparalleled ambition, drive,
and willpower, few figures in the pages of history embody a
spirit of carpe diem—seize the day—like Alexander did.

In June of 323 BC, at age 32, Alexander contracted a
mysterious fever. Within a week. he was dead. Whispers of


Page 42, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘conspiracy and murder filled the air, but nothing definitive was.
brought to light.

Alexander had written a lengthy will in case of his death,
which called for his successors to conduct military expansion
into the southem and western Mediterranean, build monumental
‘constructions, and further unify Eastern and Western
Populations. After he was gone, his generals dismissed the
plans as impractical and extravagant. Instead, they carved up
the conquered territories for themselves and went to war with
‘each other and the rest of Greece, This feud lasted 40 years
‘and culminated in the blood-soaked collapse of the entire
kingdom of Macedonia.

Alexander's legendary apotheosis is a testament to the
transformational power of drive, and of the will to physically,
mentally, and spiritually push oneself beyond the impossible.
‘Although his method was war, and some choose to remember
him as a ruthless savage, there's no denying that his
‘compassion for the vanquished and diplomacy represented
something much greater in him, and that his legacy was far
more profound than meaningless camage.

Geniuses don't work long and hard from a begrudging sense
‘of duty—they do it because they have a strong desire to give
‘everything they've got to a project and see it through to the best
Of their abilities. Ambition shows you the path to success, but
drive is what gets you through it.

“Ido not think there is any other quality so essential to
success of any kind as the quailty of perseverance,” wrote John
D. Rockefeller. “it overcomes almost everything, even nature.”

‘Many people now recognized for their stellar achievements.
were once listless and purposeless. Stephen Hawking was once
‘a young college student who felt “bored with life” without
“anything worth doing.” When he was diagnosed with
‘Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis at age 21, the doctors gave him
‘two-and-a-half years to live. While many people would have


Page 43, Instance 0, Class: Text
horizon, Hawking decided that there were still many things he
wanted to doin his life. Stephen turned 70 this year, baffling
scientists with his extraordinary longevity, and he has become
‘one of the most celebrated scientists of our times.

‘Alexanders drive was nothing short of godlike. “Sex and
sleep alone make me conscious that! am morta," he said
When he landed on the shores of Asia Minor, he looked at the
vast expanses ahead of him—the invincible cites, the milions of
Persian solciers—and simply saw heaps of mud and stone to
take and hordes of men that will soon call him king

Our journeys to greatness will probably never require the
‘sheer power of will that Alexander's did. | don't know if there's.
‘any modem experience quite comparable to charging headlong
into a few hundred thousand roaring soldiers. But if we could
capture just a fraction of Alexander's spirit and worldview, we
would be unstoppable in our adventures.

"A passionate desire and an unwearied will can perform
impossibiites or what may seem to be such to the col, timid,
‘and feeble,” wrote the famous English doctor Sir James,
Simpson.

‘So what lies behind drive? How do geniuses find the energy
‘and confidence to believe in their goals and their abiltes, as
well as the audacity to continue so believing unti their wils are
reality?

‘The Power of Purpose

Purpose isthe primary fuel of ambition. Purpose creates a
destination. We can only become fully engaged in Ife when we
{eel that we are doing something that really matters. Purpose is
what inspires us, ights us up, and floats our boats.

Washington Irving—the famous author, historian and essayist
—s2id, “Great minds have purposes, others have wishes. Little
minds ere tamed end subdued by misfortune. but arest minds


Page 44, Instance 0, Class: Text
time. Youll find it in Homer's Odyssey, and it has inspired some
of the greatest spiritual figures in history: Jesus, Buddha,
Moses, Mohammad, You'll even find it in modern culture in
movies like Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, which re-tells
the story of Perceval's search for the Holy Grail through the
daring character of indiana Jones, as well as the famous Star
Wars trilogy, in which Luke Skywalker confronts his deepest
fears by confronting and vanquishing Darth Vader and the
Empire. It's no coincidence that these movies—which
modernize the legendary virtues of the hero's journey, the.
search for meaning and the triumph of good over evil—are
‘among the most popular and successful of alltime.

“There is one quality we must possess to win,” said Napoleon
Hill, author of one of the best-selling books of aime, Think and
Grow Rich, “and that is definiteness of purpose, the knowledge
of what one wants, and a burning desire to possess it”

For a time, Alexander was an almost inhuman force, alive
with unbridled and unmatched purpose. While many in his
position would've been content with a life of kingly hedonism,
Alexander was cut from a different cloth. He pawned off,
‘everything he owned to finance what he truly cared about: his
vision of a glorious destiny and immortality. But perhaps more
impressively, he conducted himself with extreme equilibrium,
sanity, and benevolence startlingly uncharacteristic of a
‘conqueror. He lived in a time where men of his ilk were
‘expected to indulge in mindless slaughter and degradation of
the people they subdued, but he not only discouraged it, he
forbade it

One year before his death, however, his quest required an
advance from Persia to India to conquer what was left of the
known world. When Alexander announced this to his soldiers,
they mutinied. They were exhausted and longed to return to
their families. Despite inspired, moving speeches, Alexander
‘couldn't convince them to continue, so he released them from
duty and relegated himsetf to the role of administrator of his
‘empire—a post he loathed. Months later, Plutarch wrote that the
king “lost his spirits, and grew diffident of the protection and


Page 45, Instance 0, Class: Text
assistance of the gods, and suspicious of his friends.”

Ironically, during this time of ennui, Alexander suffered his
worst losses. Intrigues led to the execution of his great friends
and loyal generals Philotas and Parmenio. He killed his brave
‘and loyal officer, Cleitus, over drunken slurs. Alexander sank
into a deep depression, almost driving him to suicide, and
sowed much discontent amongst his people that had come to
love him deariy

‘exanders plight didn't stop there. Hi best fiend and
general Hephaeston died a mysterious death, rumored to be
fom poisoning. The loss sent Alexander into an revocable
rage that cost thousands of Persians their lives and led to his
further self-deification as well as his increased adoption of
Persian customs, which many Greeks despised

Finally, Alexander—a man who had defied death so regularly
‘and against such odds that his enemies had deciared him
invincible—lost his life to an unexplainable fever that began
after a night of heavy drinking. The morality of Alexander's
ambitious purpose notwithstanding, i's very clear that once he
had lost it, he rapidly lost everything. If we are to succeed in our
endeavors toward greatness, we must learn and apply this final
lesson of Alexander's to our journeys. Simply put: If purpose
dies, the entire adventure quickly follows suit.

But what isa purpose, exactly? The dictionary defines it as
follows:

The reason why something is done or why something exists.
tis something set up as an objector an end to be attained: an
intention.

Where the goal isthe what, the purpose is the allmportant
why. Purpose gives goals meaning. When the intention to make
‘something happen is weak—when you're just not feeling the
“fre™—i's not going to happen. People that ignore purpose don't
{90 very far in fe, Nobody can love what they don't fee! in their
hearts. The wll to go on expires, soon or later.

How excited are you to get to work in the morning? How
much do you enjoy what you do for is own sake rather than


Page 46, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘what it gots you? And how accountable do you hold yourself to
‘a deeply held set of goals?

These are the questions of purpose all adventurous souls
must ask themselves. If your answers to these questions are
enthusiastic, then chances are you're bringing a strong sense of
purpose to your pursuits. if your answers to these questions are
anything less, chances are you're just going through the
motions. The former path breeds persistence and grit, which
lead to opportunities and successes thereafter. The latter
breeds indifference and lethargy, which can't handle even the
pettiest of pressures.

Imagine that you're out at sea on a boat, voyaging to a far-off
destination. Your boat springs a leak, which immediately
becomes your priority. You jump down and start bailing water to
prevent going under, but forget that nobody is left to navigate
the ship. One day, after doing nothing but bailing water for who
knows how long, you poke your head over the bow and wonder
where the heck you are and how you got there. This is the
purposeless life, People can become so preoccupied with just
‘staying afloat that they fail to realize that nobody is at the helm.

Unfortunately, clarifying purpose takes time—quiet,
Uninterrupted time—which is something many of us feel we
don't have. We rush from one obligation to another without a
“50,000 foot" view of where we're going. It may seem self-
indulgent to stop and reflect on questions of meaning and
Purpose, but your journey will demand it.

When Steven Spielberg, Jeffrey Katzenberg, and David
Geffen started DreamWorks, their purpose was to entertain and
delight people. Profits were second to that. They went through
‘some tough times, coming close to bankruptcy twice. But they
persevered in large part due to their dedication to the studio's
vision and reason for being. Today, DreamWorks is one of the
largest film studios in the world.

Nobody can force a purpose on you—you must choose it of
‘your own free will. There are so many ways to help people in
the world, but you need to find your way—the way that makes
you want to put this book down right now and get into action. As


Page 47, Instance 0, Class: Text
TOWerd TRUTEN GEIG, YOU MUS TING WHER MEKSS YOU COMB
alive.

So, before beginning any adventure—before choosing any
Particular path—don't forget to ask yourself why: Why are you
doing this? Why is it exciting? Why does it really matter? When
you've addressed these questions with true convictions, you
know you've unlocked your purpose. This is the wellspring of
any strong drive to succeed.

There’s more to this story, though. By awakening purpose,
you've created an ember, not a fire. You've begun something,
but must quickly pile on the kindling to complete the
transformation that all geniuses undergo. You're ready to fight
the first battle in your journey to greatness, the battle between
the Work and the Resistance.

‘Some people will do anything to avoid the work. They have
Pretty spreadsheets, fancy proposals, slick PowerPoint
presentations, and sparkling visions of champagne baths and
keynote speeches.

They'll rattle off a long lst of industry bloggers that love their
ideas, the interviews they have lined up to woo top talent, and.
the play-by-play of their ten-year plans and distribution models.
But ask them about the rea/ work—the hard work that’s required
to materialize ideas into something usable, valuable, and viable
—and they're likely to fall into an awkward silence,

‘These self-styled visionaries just don't get it. Or they don't,
want to get it. They aren't doing the work, and they won't
succeed regardless of how busy they keep themselves with not
doing it. So what is the work, anyway?

‘The work consists of the actions that directly create
something with tangible, exchangeable, enduring value. Once
that's complete, the work includes the actions that move the
creation out into the hands of users and consumers, in
‘exchange for something of equal value. The drive of a genius is
always in the direction of doing the work


Page 47, Instance 1, Class: Text
Howard Thurman said, you must find what makes you come
alive.

So, before beginning any adventure—before choosing any
Particular path—don't forget to ask yourself why: Why are you
doing this? Why is it exciting? Why does it really matter? When
you've addressed these questions with true convictions, you
know you've unlocked your purpose. This is the wellspring of
any strong drive to succeed.

There’s more to this story, though. By awakening purpose,
you've created an ember, not a fire. You've begun something,
but must quickly pile on the kindling to complete the
transformation that all geniuses undergo. You're ready to fight
the first battle in your journey to greatness, the battle between
the Work and the Resistance.


Page 48, Instance 0, Class: Text
Cf the world works, tweeting and blogging about it isnt the work.
Coding a proof of concept that you can use to raise funding with
is, however. i you have a story string inside you thatthe world
needs to read, spending another 50 hours searching for
inspiration or bouncing your ideas off others isnt the work.
Finishing the outine and starting the first drafts.

‘Alexander was renowned for his unequalled dedication to the
work. Once he locked his sights on the next milestone is his
joumey, whether it be the next city to subdue or next region to
assimilate, he spent every waking minute in action, making it so,
In his own words, the most slavish thing was to “luxuriate,”
whereas the most royal thing was to “labor.”

He also understood the power of momentum, Once you're in
motion, its much easier to stay 80, which allows for greater and
‘greater acceleration. And the closer Alexander approached the
accomplishment of a goal, the harder he pushed. Look at his
actions after his briliant, but harrowing, breakthrough at the
Persian Gates. He hadn't slept in over a day and just completed
‘another perilous assault, and his officers suggested that he join
his men in celebration of what was sure to be the ast ofthe
Persian defenses. After a well-deserved rest, Persepolis would
be theirs. Instead, Alexander did what ust came natural to him.
‘A man of such impetuous drive couldn't stop when the finish line
was just over the horizon,

If doing the work isthe key to victory in our journeys to
‘greatness, what has the power to stop us? The answer takes us
inward, and if we are to advance in our quests, it must be
‘conquered with the same vigor and determination of Alexander.

The Invisible. Insidious, and Impersonal Enemy That Hates the
Work

Resistance is invisible, insidious, and impersonal. It can't be
‘seen, but it's in you right now, and it can be felt. Resistance tells
you anything to keep you from doing the work. It wil ie, argue,
luster, seduce, and bully you to get its way. It will say anything
to strike a deal and then stab you in the back. It doesn't care


Page 49, Instance 0, Class: Text
who you are or wha you want todo. It has no conscience.
While the genius code awakens our potentials, Resistance
‘obscures them.

What kinds of things does Resistance hate most?

Any creative artistic action. Any type of entrepreneurial
venture. Any new diet or fitness regimen. Any method of
spiritual advancement. Any type of education. Anything
‘courageous. In short, anything that requires us to forego
immediate gratification in search of long-term growth oF
futfilment.

Resistance loves excuses, justifications, and compromises.
Start tomorrow, it says. Wait until you're a bit smarter, stronger,
wealthier, happier, motivated, or prepared. Don't rock the boat,
it advises. Who are you to challenge the status quo? Do you
really think you can bear the cross that comes with it?
Resistance’s stock in trade is diversions, folies, and dead ends,
‘and i's a remarkable salesperson

Inhis last year, Alexander lost the only work that mattered to
him—the heroic pursuit of glory for himself and for Greece—and
with it, the only defense against Resistance. This malevolent
force relished the chance to conquer the man that conquered
the world, and proved more than capable ofthe task. Ifitcan
undermine someone of Alexander's strength, itcan do atleast
the same to us

Resistance has a fatal weakness, though. We can turn the
tables oni. Itcan be defeated.

In his biliant book, The War of Art, Stephen Pressfield
reveals that Resistance’s Achilles heel les inthe fact that it will
‘only fight that which is truly important in your life. It wants to kil,
your deepest purposes and desires, your true calling and git.
Yes, kill them. In this way, however, it shows you what work you
must do-your very personal path to profound fulfilment,
happiness, and success. Resistance dares you to meet itin
pitched battle.

When you do anything but the work, Resistance sneers at
you. It's playing you like a marionette. You're feeding it, making


Page 50, Instance 0, Class: Text
it stronger. But when you do the wor, it shrieks in horror.
“Anything but the work” it cries. Itinvades your mind and
flashes shiny distractions. Facebook! Twitter! Television! Phone!
ANYTHING BUT THE WORK!

Make no mistake. The fight against Resistance is a war to the
death. It will tell you you're too weak to kilt. Too stupid. Too
lazy. But you're not. Ironically, it depends on your obedience for
its strength,

Defiantly do the work instead and Resistance withers. Every
bit of work done strikes at it. Do enough work and its armor
‘crumbles, ts power fades, and all that's left is a whispering
‘ghost. Do more work and it even stops whispering,

Ifyou're trying to create a business, a career, a relationship,
‘or anything else in your life, you're a wartior.

Your primary enemy is Resistance, and as we saw in
Alexander's story, i's ultimately more dangerous—and powerful
—than barbarian hordes, impenetrable castles, and sweeping
‘empires.

‘The journey to greatness requires that you fight the battle
‘against Resistance anew every day by doing the work. Drive
‘compels you forward. If we are to learn from Alexander's
brilliance, you strengthen your will by clarifying purpose, getting
into motion, and never relenting. And if we are to lear from
Alexander's greatest mistake, you retain your strength by never
‘accepting anything less than the adventure you yearn for—your
‘call tn creninonn


Page 51, Instance 0, Class: Text
his book reveals things like...

+ How to view and deal with the world as Leonardo da
Vinci did, and embrace the one trait that most
accounted for his incredible genius and talents.

+ How Thomas Edison was able to go from a mischievous


Page 51, Instance 1, Class: Text
WOULD You LIKE TO LEARN ABOUT
MoRE OF HISTORY’S GREATEST
GENIUSES...AND HOW YOu CAN JOIN
THEM?
If you'd like to know what some of history's greatest
thinkers and achievers can teach you about awakening
your inner genius, and how to find, follow, and fulfill your
journey to greatness, then you want to read Awakening
‘Your Inner Genius today.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_51instance2.jpg]

Page 52, Instance 0, Class: Text
academically challenged kid to the world’s most
‘successful inventor, and how you too can formulate and
realize goals lke he did

+ The secret to Alexander the Great's superhuman drive
land work ethic, and how you can inspire yourself to,
pursue your own goals and dreams with the same
vigor and tenacity.

+ What geniuses like Elizabeth | can teach you about the
importance of individualism in your jourey to greatness,
‘and how to strengthen your will to break away from
‘conventions, ignore the naysayers, and stay true to your
vision and principles.

+ How Hippocrates’ epic quest to reform medicine in
ancient Greece was fueled by his unparalleled
Judgment, and how you too can sharpen your ability to
‘make the right decisions at the right times and thus.
‘move closer to your dreams, one good call at a timo.

+ And much, much more.

n this book you're going to learn something most people will
jever know: What it really takes to find and follow your:
iss, and how you can use the lessons passed down to us
ny some of history's greatest geniuses to systematically
ise to top of your fields, activities, and endeavors.


Page 52, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘Successful inventor, and how you too can formulate and
realize goals lke he did

+ The secret to Alexander the Great's superhuman drive
land work ethic, and how you can inspire yourself to,
pursue your own goals and dreams with the same
vigor and tenacity.

+ What geniuses like Elizabeth | can teach you about the
importance of individualism in your jourey to greatness,
‘and how to strengthen your will to break away from
‘conventions, ignore the naysayers, and stay true to your
vision and principles.

+ How Hippocrates’ epic quest to reform medicine in


Page 53, Instance 0, Class: Text
WOULD YOU DO ME A FAVORS
Thank you for reading my book. | hope you enjoyed it! I'm
postive thal you decide to walk the path to greatness, you can
Unlock possbilis for happiness and accomplishment that you
never believed possible.

Uhave a small favor to ask. Would you mind taking a minute to
wre a blur on Google Play about tis book? I check al my
reviews and love to get feedback (that's the real pay for my
work—knowing that I'm helping people).
Click here to leave me a review on Google Play
‘Aso, i you have any ends o amy that might enjoy tis book,
‘spread the love and lend it to them!
Now, | dont just want to sell you a book—t want to connect with
28 many people as | can and hear tel stores, lam rom thelr
wisdom, get nepired by their courage, and, wel st enjoy the
debits of iendship,
Thus, dove to hear from you, and what you thought of his
book! Al feedback is welcome, and if you have any ideas you'd
like to share on how | can improve th book or what you think |
should we about next let me know! You can reach me at
‘sean@yourinnergenius.com, or on Facebook, Twitter, and G+:
Like me on Facebook:
www.facebook.com/AwakeningYourinnerGenius
Follow me on Twitter: www.twitter.com/ayigenius
‘Thanks again, | hope to hear from you, and wish you the best!
Sean


Page 53, Instance 1, Class: Text
WOULD You DO ME A FAVOR?
Thank you for reading my book. | hope you enjoyed it! I'm
positive that if you decide to walk the path to greatness, you can
unlock possibilities for happiness and accomplishment that you
ever believed possible.
| have a small favor to ask. Would you mind taking a minute to
write a blurb on Google Play about this book? I check all my
reviews and love to get feedback (that's the real pay for my
‘work—knowing that I'm helping people).

Click here to leave me a review on Google Play


Page 54, Instance 0, Class: Text
Awakening Your Inner Genius
I you'd lke to know what some of history's greatest thinkers
land achievers can teach you about awakening your inner
‘genius, and how to find, follow, and fulfil your journey to
‘greatness, then you want to read this book today.
Click here to learn more about this book!


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great/Image\page_54instance1.jpg]

Page 54, Instance 2, Class: Text
ALSO BY SEAN PATRICK


