Page 1, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
ost other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
Nhatsoever.. You say copy it, give dt away or re-use it under the tera
OF the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
St wm, gutenberg.org. if you are not located in the United States,
you wiil have to check the lawe of the country where you are located
Before using this eBook
‘Title: Alexander the Great
Author: Jaco Abbott
Release date: Decenber 7, 2809 [eBook #30528]
Language: English
Credits: E-text prepared by O Alexander and the Project Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading
E-text prepared by D Alexander and the Project Gutenberg Online
Distributed Proofreading Team (http:/ /am.pBdp-net)
Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HIML version of this
file which includes the original illustrations,
See. 30624-h.htm or 30824-n.24p:
(eeeps:/ tm. gutenberg.org/cache/epub/38624/pg30624~inages. htm)
(foeeps://tma. gutenberg.org/#ies/30624/3062-h.2ip)
Makers of History
by


Page 1, Instance 2, Class: Text
Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year one thousand
fight hundred and forty-nine, by
Harper & srothers,


Page 2, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘he history of the Life of every individual who has, for any reason,
attracted extensively the sttention of mankind, has’ been weitten in’ 2
great variety of ways by a multitude of authors, and persons sonetines
onder why we should have so many different accounts of the sane

ning. The feason is, that each ane of these accounts is intended for
a different set of readers, who read with ideas and purposes widely
Gissinilar from each other, Anong the twenty millions of people in the
United States, there are perhaps. tho millions, between the ages of
Fifteen and twenty-five, who wish to become acquainted, in general,
vith the leading events sn the history of the Old World, and of
ancient tines, but who, coming upon the stage in this land and at this
period, have ideas and’ conceptions so widely different fro those of
Sther nations and of other tines, that a sere republication oF
existing accounts is not what they require. The story must be told
expressly for then. The things that are to be explained, the points
‘that are to be brought out, the conparative degree of prominence to be
given to the various particulars, will all be different, on account of
the difference in the situation, the ideas, and the objects oF these
new readers, compared with those oF the various other classes oF
Peaders which former authors have had in view, 1¢ 1s for this reason,
land with this vieu, that the present series of historical narratives,
4s presented to the public. The author, having had sone opportunity to
become acquainted with the position, the ideas, and the intellectual
Mants of those whom he addresses, presents the result of his labors to
Them, with the hope that it may be found successful in accomplishing
ste design,


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/gutenberg.org_cache_epub_30624_pg30624/Form\page_3instance2.jpg]

Page 4, Instance 0, Class: Text
prince Alexander. --Ancient mode of warfare.--Ancient and

fodern military officers.--Alexander's nurse.--Alexander's
feducation.--Lysinachus.--Honer.--Aristotle.--Alexander's copy

of Honer.--Alexander's energy and aubition.--The Persian
fenbaseadors.--Stories of the enbsczadore, “Maturity of Alexander's
find. -Secret of Alexander's success.--The story of Bucephalus.--Philip
Condeans the horse,--Alexander desires to mount hin. -Bucephalic
called. --An exciting ride.--Sagacity of Bucephalus.--Becones Alexander's
Favorite.--fate of Sucephalus.--Alexander made regent.--Alexander's
First baitie.--charonea.--Alevander's inpetuosity.--Philip repudiates
Olympias.--Alexander's violent temper.--Philip's attempt on his

son. Philip's poner.--His plans of conquest. -Alexander's dapatience
to reign.

Alexander the Great died when he was quite young. He was but
thirty-two years of age when he ended his career, and as he was about
‘enty when he conmenced it, it was only for a period of twelve years
‘that he was actually engaged in perforwing the work of his Life.
Napoleon was nearly three tines ss long on the great field of human
fetion

Notwithstanding the briefness of Alexander's career, he ran through,
during that short period, a very brilliant series of exploits, which
were so bold, so romanti¢, and which lea hin into such adventures. in
‘Feenes of the greatest magnificence and splendor, that all the world
ooked on with astonishment then, and mankind have continued to read
the story since, From age to age, with the greatest interest and
attention

‘ihe secret of Alexander's success was his character. He possessed a
certain combination of mental and personal attractions, which in
every age gives to those who exhibit st a mysterious and almost
Uinbounded ascendency over all within their influence. Alexander was
characterized by these qualities ina very remarkable degree. He was
Finely forsed in person, and very prepossessing in his manners. He
was active, athletic, and full of ardor and enthusiasm in all that

he gid. At the sane tine, he was calm, collected, and considerate

in energencies requiring caution, and thoughtful’ and far-seeing in
respect to the bearings and consequences of his acts. He forsed strong
Sttachnents, was gratefull for kindnesses shown to his, considerate in
respect to the feelings of all uho were connected with his in any way,
faithful to his friends, and generous toward his foes. Ina word, he
had a noble character, though he devoted its energies unfortunately to
conquest and war. He Lived, in fact, in an age when great personal. and
ental powers had scarcely’ any other field for thele exercise than
this. He entered upon his carcer with great ardor, and the position in
ich he was placed gave him the opportunity to act in it with
prodigious effect.

‘There were several cincunstances cosbined, in the situation in which
Alexander was placed, to afford him a great opportunity for the
exercise of his vast powers. fis native country wae on the confines of
Europe and Asia. Now Europe and Asia were, in those days, as now,
arked and distinguished by two vast masses of social and civilized
Life, widely discinilar from each other, The Asiatic side wae occupied
by the Persians, the Medes, and the Assyrians. The European side by
the Greeks and fonns. They wore separated fron each other by the
waters of the Hellespont, the Agean Sea, and the Mediterranean,

as will be seen by the map. These waters constituted a sort oF
hatural bareier, which kept the two races apart. The races formed,
Accordingly, two vast organizations, distinct and widely different


Page 5, Instance 0, Class: Text
highest. The two were so different that it is difficult to compare
them, On the Asiatic sige there was wealth, lusury, and splendor) on
‘the European, energy, genus, and force. Oo the one hand were vast
cities, splendid palaces, and gardens which were the wonder of the
orld; on the other, strong cltadels, military roads and bridges,

nd compact and well-defended towns. ‘The Persians had enorwaus armies,
perfectly provided for, with beautiful tents, horses elegantly
aparisoned, arms and munitions of war of the finest workmanship, and
officers magnificently dressed, and accustoned to a life of luxury and
Splendor. ‘The Greeks and Rowans, on the other hand, prided thenselves
fon their conpact bodies of troops, inured to hardship and thoroughly
disciplined. Their officers gloried not in luxury and parade, but in
‘the courage, the steadiness, and implicit obedience of their troops,
and in theit own science, skill, and powers of military calculation
hus there was a great aifference in he whole systen of social and
rilitary organization in these tio quarters of the globe

Now Alexander was born the heir to the throne of one of the Grecian
Kingdoms. He possessed, in a very remarkable degree, the energy, and
enterprise, and military skill so characteristic of the Greeks and
Romans. He organized armies, crossed the boundary between Europe and
Asia, and spent the twelve years of his career in a most teiusphant,
military incursion into the very center and seat of Asiatic power,
destroying the Asiatic armies, conquering the sost splendid cities,
defeating or taking captive the kings, and princes, and generals that
opposed his progress. The whole word’ looked on with wonder to see
Such a course of conquest, pursued so successfully by so young a man,
and with so seall an army, gaining continual victories, as it did,
over such vast unbers of foes, and making conquests of such
Sccunilated treasures of wealth and splendor.

‘ihe name of Alexander's father was Philip. The kingdom over which

he reigned yas called Macedon, Macedon was in the northern part

Of Greece. Te was 2 kingdom about twice as large as the state of
Massachusetts, and one third as large as the state of New York. The
ane of Alexander's mother was Olympias. she was the daughter of the
King of Epirus, which was a kingdom soscuhat smaller than Macedon, and
lying westward’ of it. Seth Macedon and Epirus will be Found upon the
imap at the conencenont of this volume. Olympias was a wonan of Very
Strong and deterained character. Alexander seened to inherit her
fnergy, though in his case St was combined with other qualities of 9
wore attractive character, which his mother did not possess.

He was) of course, as the young prince, 2 very important personage in
his father’s court. every ane knew that at his Father's death he would
becone King of Macedon, and he was consequently the object of 2 great
deal of care and attention. As he gradually advanced in the years of
his boyhood, St was observed by 211 who knew him that he was endued
with extraordinary qualities of mind and of character, shih seemed to
Indicate, at a very early age, his future greatness.

Although he was a prince, he was not brought up in habits of luxury
fand effeninacy. this would have been contrary to all the sdeos which
Were entertained by the Greeks in those days. They had then no
Fine-arms, 0 that in bottle the combatants could not stand quietly,
fas they can now, at a distance from the eneny, coolly discharging
misketry on canton. In ancient battles the soldiers rushed toward each
ther, and fought hand to hand, in close combat, with swords, or
Spears, or other weapons requiring great personal strength, so that
headlong bravery and muscular force were the qualities which generally
carried the day.

‘The duties of officers, too, on the field of battle, were very


Page 6, Instance 0, Class: Text
cellected, pacd quiet. His Mugtnesy is te ple, te calculate, to
‘direct, and areange. He hae to do this sonetines, St 1s true, in
Cireunstances of the most iaminent danger, so that he must be 3 man
of great self-pocsession and of undaunted courage. But there is very
Little occasion for him to exert any grest physical force.
4m ancient tines, however, the great business of the officers,
certainly in all the subotdinate grades, was to lead on the ncn, and
Set then an example by performing thenselves deeds in uhich their oun
great personal provess vas displayed. OF course it was considered
Extrencly dnportant that the child destined to be a general. should
becone robust and powerful in constitution from his earliest years,
and that he should be inured to hardship and fatigue. In the early
part of Alexander's 1ife this was the asin cbject of attention.
‘The name of the nurse who had charge of our hero in his infancy was
Lannice. she did all in her power to give strength and hardihood to
his constitution, while, at the sane fine, she treated his with
kindness and gentleness. Alexander acquired a strong affection for
her, and he treated her with great consideration as. long as he Lived.
He had a governor, also, in his early years, naned Leonnatus, who had
‘the genersl charge of his education, Az soon a= he wae old enough to
learn, they appointed his 3 preceptor also, to teach him such branches
as wete generally taught to young princes in those days. The nane of
‘this preceptor was Lysimachus.
‘Tey had then no printed books, but there were a few writings on
parchaent rolls which young. scholars were taught to read. sone of
these writings were treatises on philosophy, others were romantic
histories, narrating the exploits of the heross of those days--of
course, with much exaggeration and enbellishnent. There were aso some
poens, still sore romantic than the histories, ‘though generally on the
Sane thenes. The greatest productions of this kind were the writings
Of Honer, an ancient poet uho lived and wrote four or five hundred
Years before Alexander's day. The young Alexander was greatly
Gelighted with Homer's tales. These tales are narrations of the
exploits and adventures of certain great warriors at the siege of
‘Teoy--a siege which lasted ten years--and they are written with so
much beauty. and force, they contain such admirable delineations of
Character, and such graphic and vivid descriptions of romantic
adventures, and picturesque and striking scenes, that they have been
‘amined in’ every’ age by all who have learned to’ understand the
language in which they are wedtten
Alexander could understand then very easily, as they were written
in his mother tongue. He was greatly excited by the narcations
Thenselves, and pleased with the flowing smoothness of the verse
Sn which the tales were told. zn the Latter part of his course of
education he was placed under the charge of Aristotle, who was one
Of the mast eminent philosophers of ancient tines. Aristotle had 2
beautiful copy of Honer's poens prepared expressly for Alexander,
faking great pains to have st transcribed with perfect correctness,
and in the most elegant aanner. Alexander carried this copy with him
In all his campaigns. Some years afterward, when he was obtaining
Gonquests over the Persians) he took, among the spoils of one of his
Wictories, a very beautiful and costly casket, which king Darius had
Used for his jewelry or for sone other rich treasures. Alexander
fdetennined to make Use of this box ae a depository for his beautiful
copy of Homer, and he always carried it with hin, thus protected, in
all his subsequent canpaigns
Alexander was full of energy and spirit, but he was, at the same tine,
‘ike all who ever become truly great, of a reflective and considerate
‘turn of mind. He was very fond of the studies which Aristotle led his
‘to pursue, although they were of a very abstruse and difficult


Page 7, Instance 0, Class: Text
a eee eee eee eey sca. pneosopiy and
rathenatics, by which means nis powers of calculation and Mis judgeent
were greatly improved.

He early evinced a great degree of ambition. His father Philip was 2
powerful warrior, and made many conquests in various parts of Greece,
Though he did not cross nto Aeis, when news of Philip's victordes
cane into Macedon, all the rest of the court would be filled with
Fejoicing and delight; but Alexander, on such occasions, looked
‘haugheful and dissppointed, and complained that his father would
conquer every country, and leave hin nothing to do.

‘se one tine some enbassadors from the Persian court arrived in Macedon
when Philip was avay.. these ambassadors saw Alexander, of course, and
had opportunities £0 converse with him. They expected that he would be
Anterested in hearing about the splendors, and posp, and parade of
‘the Persian monarchy. They had stories to’ tell him about the fancus
hanging gardens, which were artificially constructed in the sost
rragnificent manner, on arches raised high in the air; and about a vine
fade of gold, with all sorts of precious stones upon it instead of
fruit, which was wrought as an ornasent over the throne on which the
King GF Persia often gave audience; of the splendid palaces and vast
cities of the Persians; and the banquets, and fetes, and nagnificent
entertainments and celebrations which they used to have there. They
found, however, to their surprise, that Alexander was not interested
Sn hearing about any of these things. He would always turn the
conversation fron then to inquire about the geographical position of
the different Persian countries, the various rautes leading into the
Anterior, the organization of the Asiatic armies, their systen of
military’ tactics, and, especially, the character’ and habits oF
fAetaxerxes, the Persisn king

‘he enbassadors were very much surprised at such evidences of maturity
of mind, and of far-seeing and reflective powers an the part of the
Young prince. They could not help comparing him with Artaxerses.
“alexander,” said they, "is _great_, uhile our king is only rich."
‘he truth of the Judgnent which these enbassadors thus forwed in
respect to the qualities of the young Macedonian, coupared with those
held in highest estimation on the Asiatic side, was fully confirmed in
the subsequent stages of Alexander's career.

4n fact, this combination of a calm and calculating thoughtfulness,
vith the ardor and energy which forwed the basis of his character, ‘was
fone great secret of Alevander's success, The story of Bucephalus, ‘hie
Famous horse, illustrates this ina very striking manner, This animal
as a war-horse of very spirited character, which had becn sent as 2
present to Pnilip while Alexander wae young. They took the horse

bout into one of the parks connected with the palsce, and the king,
together with many of his courtiers, went out to view him. The horse
pranced about n'a very furious manter, and seened entirely
Uinmanageable. to one dared to nount his. Philip, instead of being
gratified at the present, was rather disposed £0 be displeaced that
‘they had sent his an aniaal of so fiery and apparently vicious 3
nature that nobody dared to attempt to” subdue him

4n the mean tine, while all the other by-standers were joining én the
feneral condennation of the horse, Alexander stood quietly by,
Natehing his aotions, and attentively. studying his character. He
Perceived that 2 part of the difficulty was caused by the agitations
Nich the horse experienced in so strange and new a scene, and that he
appeared, also, to be sonauhat frightened by his own shadow, which
happened’ at that tine to be thrown very strangly and distinctly upon
‘the ground. He sau other indications, also, that the high excitenent
wich the horse Felt was not viciousness, but the excess of noble and
generous inpulses. It was courage, ardor, and the consciousness of


Page 8, Instance 0, Class: Text
Philip had decided that the horse was useless, and had given orders to
have hin sent back to Thessaly, whence he cane. Alexander was very
fmuch concerned at the prospect of losing so fine an animal. He begged
his father to allow him to make the experiment of mounting him. PRIlip
at First refused, thinking it very presunptuous for such a youth to
Sttenpe to subdue an aniaal so vicious that all his experiences
horsemen and grooms condenned hin; however, he at length consented.
Alexander went up t0 the horse and took hold of his bridle. He patted
hin upon the neck, and soothed him with his voice, showing, at the
ane tine, by his e23y and unconcerned manner, that he was not in the
least afraid of him. A spirited horse knows immediately when any one
approaches hin in 2 tinid or cautious manner. He appears to Look with
Contenpt on such a waster, and to determine not to subait to his. On
{the contrary, horses seen to love to yield obedience to man, when the
individual who exacts the obedience possesses those qualitics of
coolness and courage which their instincts enable them to appreciate.
[nllustration: ALEXANOER AND BUCEPHALUS.]

‘se any rate, Bucephalus was calmed and subdued by the presence of
‘Alexander. fe allowed hinself to be caressed. Alexander turned Mis
head in such a direction a5 to prevent his seeing his shadow. He
‘quietly and gently laid off a sort of cloak which he wore, and <prang
Upon the horse's back. Then, instead of attempting to restrain hin,
land worrying and checking hin by useless efforts to hold him in, he
fave hin the rein freely, and aninated and encouraged him with his
Voice, so that the horse flew across the plains at the top of his
Speed, the king and the courtiers looking on, at first with fear and
renbling, but soon afterward with feelings of the greatest admiration
and pleasure. after the horse had satisfied himself with his run it
was easy to rein him in, and Alexander returned with him in safety to
‘he King. The courtiers overwhelmed hia with their praises” and
Congratulations. Philip comended him very highly: he told him that he
deserved 2 larger Kingdom than Macedon to” govern.

Alexander's judgaent of the true character of the horse proved to

be correct. He becane very tractable and docile, yielding a ready
Submission ‘to his master in every thing. He would kneel upon his’ fore
‘legs at Alexander's comand, in order that he sight mount ware easily.
‘Alexander retained hin for a long tine, and nade hin his favorite war
horse, A great many storie: are related by the historians of those
days of his sogacity and his feats of war. Whenever he was equipped
for the field with his military trappings, he seemed to be highly
elated with pride and pleasure, and at such tines he would not allow
any one but Alexander to mount his.

nat becane of him at last is not certainly known. There are to
Accounts of his end. One is, that on a certain occasion Alexander got
Garriea too far into the midst of his enemies, on a battle field and
that, after Fighting desperately for sone tins, Sucephalus made the
ost extrene exertions to carry him away. He was severely wounded
‘again and again, and though nis strength was nearly gone, he would not
top, but pressed forward till he had carried his master away £0 2
place of safety, and that then he dropped down exhausted, and died. It
fay be, however, that he did not actually die at this time, but slowly
Fecovered; for fone histordane relate that he lived to be thirty years
Old--which is quite an old age for a horse--and that he then died.
‘Alexander caused him to be buried with great ceresory, and built 2
wall city upon the spot in honor of his aenory. the nane of this city
was Bucephalia.

Alexander's character matured rapidly, and he began very early to act
‘the part of a man. When he was only sixteen years of age, his father,


Page 9, Instance 0, Class: Text
Philip, made him regent of Macedon while he was absent on a great
nlitary canpaign among the other states of Greece. without doubt
‘Alexander had, in this regency, the counsel and aid of high officers
fof state of great experience and ability. He acted, however, hinself,
Sn this high position, with great energy and with complete success;
fand, at the sone tine, with all that modesty of deportment, and that
delicate consideration for the officers under him-cuho,, though
inferior in'rank, were yet his superiors in age and experdence--which
his position rendered proper, but which few persons so. young as he
would have manifested in circunstances so well calculated to awaken
the feelings of vanity and elation

Afterward, when Alexander was about eighteen years olé, his father
took hin with hin ons campaign toward the south, during which Philip
Fought one of hie great battles at charonea, in goeatia. in the
arrangenents for this bettle, Philip gave the comand of one of the
Wings of the aray to Alexander, while he reserved the other for
hinself, He felt sone solicitude in giving his young son so important
2 charge, but he endeavored to guard against the danger of an
Unfortunate result by putting the ablest generals on Alexander's side,
Nile he reserved those on whom he could place less reliance for his
fun. Thus organized, the aray went into battle,

Philip soon ceased to feel any solicitude for Alexander's part of the
duty. Boy as he was, the young prince acted with the utmost bravery,
coolness, and discretion. The wing which he comanded was victorious,
land Philip was obliged to urge hinself and the officers with hin to
greater exertions, to avoid being outdone by his son. In the end
Pnilip was completely victorious, and the result of this great battle
wae to make his power paramount. and suprene over all the states of
Notwithstanding, however, the extraordinary discretion and wisdom
Nich characterized the mind of Alexander in his early years, ne Was
fften naughty and headstrong, and in cases where his pride of his
Fesentment were aroused, he was sonetines found very impetuous and
Uuncontrollable. His mother Olyapias was of a haughty and imperious
tteaper, and she quarreled with her husband, King Philip; or, perhaps,
AE ought rather to be said that he quarreled with her. Each’ is said
‘to have been unfaithful to the other, and, after a bitter contention,
Philip repudiated his wife and married another Lady. Anong the
festivities held on the occasion of this marriage, chere was a great
banquet, at which Alexander was present, and an incident occurred
ich stedkingly dilustrates the inpetuosity of his character.

one of the quests at this banquet, in saying sonething complinentary
to the new queen, made use of expressions which Alexander considered
as in disparagement of the character of his mother and of his own
birth. His anger was immediately aroused. He threw the cup from which
he had been drinking at the offender's head. Attalus, for this was his
nase, theew his cup at Alexander in return; the guests at the table
where they were Sitting rose, and a Scene of uproar and confusion
ensued

Philip, incensed at such an interruption of the order and harmony of
‘the wedding feast, drew hie sword and rushed toward Alexander but by
some accident he Stunbled and Fell upon the floor. Alexander looked
Upon his fallen father with contempt and scorn, and exciained, "hhat 2
‘Fine hero the state: of Greece have to lead their ansies--a nan that
‘an nat get across the floor without tumbling down.” He then turned
auay and left the palace. Immediately afterward he Joined his mother
Olympias, and went away with her to her native country, Epirus, where
tthe mother and son renained for a tine in'a state of open quarrel with
tthe husband and father


Page 10, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘In the neon tine Pailip hed been planning = greet expedition inte
‘Asta. He had arranged the affairs of his own Kingdom, and had formed 2
Strong conbination anong the states of Greece, by which powerful
armies had been raised, and he had been designated to comand then.
His mind was very intently engaged in this vast enterprise. He was in
the Flower of his years, and at the height of his power. His own
kingdom was: in 2 very prosperous and thriving condition, and his
ascendency over the other Kingdons and states on the European side had
been fully established. He was excited with ambition, and full of
hope. He was proud of his con Alexander, and was relying upon his
efficient aid in his schenes of conquest and aggrandizenent. He had
farried a youthful and beautiful bride, and was surrounded by scenes
of festivity, congratulation, and rejoicing. He was looking forward to
2 very brilliant career considering all the deeds that he Nad done and
a1 the glory which he had acquired as only the intreduction and
Prelude to the far more distinguished and conspicuous part which he
was intending to perfora.

Alexander, in the mean tine, ardent and impetuous, and eager for glory
faz he was, looked upon the position and prospects of his father with
sone envy’ and jealousy. He was inpatient to be monarch hinself. His
‘aking sides so promptly with his mother in the domestic quarrel was
partly owing to the feeling that his father was 2 hinderance and an
Gostacle in the way of his own greatness and fane. He felt within
hinself powers and capacities qualifying him to take his father's
place, and reap for hinself the harvest of glory and power which
Seened £0 avait the Grecian araies in the coming campaign. While

his father lived, however, he could be only a prince; influential,
Accomplished, and popular, it is true, but still without any
Substantial and independent power. He vas restless and uneasy at the
thought that, as his father was in the prime and vigor of manhood,
many long years aust elapse before he could energe fron this confined
land subordinate condition. His restlessness and uneasiness were,
however, suddenly ended by very extraordinary occurrence, which
Called him, with scarcely an hout's notice, to take his father's place
Upon the throne.


Page 10, Instance 1, Class: Text
Philip is reconciled to Olyspias and Alexander.--clyapias and Alexander
retumed.-cThe great wedding.--Preparations for the wedding.--costly
Presents.--Celebration of the wedding. -Ganes and spectacles.--statues
bf the gods.--Nilitary procession.--Agpesrance of Philip.--the

Scene changed, -Assassination of Philip.--Alexander prociained
king.--Aexander’s speech.--Denosthenes’ Philippics.--The Greeks
Suspected of the murder.--The Persians also.--Alexander's new
position.--His designs. murderers of Philip punished. --Alexander' =
First sete.--Parsenio. cities of Southern Greece. --Map of Macedon and
Greece, --Athens and Carinth.--Thebes, sparta. --conguests of

Philip. -Alexander narches southward, --Pase of Thermopyli.~-The
danphictyonie council.--March through Thessaly.--Alexander's traits of
character.--The Thessalians join Alexander.--He sits in the Amphictyonic
Counetl.-“Tthersopyle.--Leonidas and his spartans.--Death of
Leonidas.--spartan valor.--Alexander made. conander-in-chief.--He
etumns to Macedon.


Page 11, Instance 0, Class: Text
were these:

Philip had felt very desirous, before setting out upon his great
expedition into Asia, to becowe reconciled to Alexander and Olyapias
he wished for Alexander's co-operation in his plans; and then,
besides, it would be dangerous to go auay from his own dominions with
Such a Son left behind, in a state of resentment and hostility.

So Philip sent kind and conciliatory messages to Olyapias and
Alexander, who had gone, it will be recollected, to Epirus, where her
friends resided. The brother of Olyspias was King of Epirus. He had
been at first incensed at the indignity which had been put upon his
Sister by Philip's treataant of her; but Philip now tried to appease
his anger, also, by friendly negotiations and messages. At last he
arranged 3 narriage between this King of Epirus and one of his oun
Gaugnters, and this completed the reconciliation. Olympi3s and
‘Alexander’ returned to Macedon, and great preparations were made for a
very splendid wedding.

Philip wished to make this wedding not merely the means of confirming
his reconciliation with his former wife'and son, and establishing
friendly relations with the King of Epirus: he also prized it 35. an
‘occasion for paying marked and honorable attention to the princes and
great generale af the other states oF Greace. He consequently made his
Preparations ona very extended and sumptuous scale, and sent
Invitations to the influential and prominent men far and near.

‘These great men, on the other hand, and all the other public
authorities in the various Grecian states, sent compliments,
Congratulations, and presents to Philip, each seening anbstious to
contribute his share to the splendor of the celebration. They were not
Wholly disinterested in this, it is true. As Philip had been made
‘Commander: in-chief of the Grécian aries which were about to undertake
the conquest of Asia, and 3s, of course, his influence and power in
all that related to that vast enterprise would be paranount and
Suprene} snd as all were ambitious to have a large share in the glory
of that expedition, and to participate, as much a5 possible, in the
ower and in the renown whieh seened £0 be st Philip's disposal, all
were, of course, very anxious to secure his favor. A short tine
before, they were contending against hin; but now, since he had
established his ascendency, they all eagerly joined in the work of
fagnifying 4 and making 1¢ illustrious

Nor could Philip justly complain of the hollowness and falseness of
these professions of friendship. The complinents and favors which he
offered to then were equally hollow and heartless. He wished to secure
“their favor asa means of aiding hin up the steep path to fane and
ower uhich he was attempting to eLinb. They wished for his, in order
nat he wight, 25 he ascended hinself, help ther up with hin. There
was, however, ‘the greatest appearance of cordial and devoted
Friendship. Sone cities sent him presents of golden crows,
beautifully wrought, and of high cost. Others. dispatched enbassies,
expressing their good wishes for hin, and their confidence in the
Success of his plans. Athens, the city which was the great seat of
Literature and science in Greece sent a poem, in uhich the history
‘of the expedition into Persia was given by anticipation. In this poen
Prilip was, of course, triumphantly successful in his enterprise. Ke
Conducted his arsiee in safety through the most dangerous pscses and
defiles; he fought glorious battles, gained magnificent victories, and
possessed hinself of all the treasures of Aciatic wealth and power. It
Sught to be stated, however, in justice to the poet, that, in
narrating these imaginary exploits, he had sufficient delicacy to
represent Philip and the Persian monarch by fictitious names.


Page 12, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The wedding was at length celebrated, in one of the cities of Macedon,
with great pomp and splendor. There were games, and shows, and
isilitary and civic spectacles of all kinds to amuse the thousands of
Spectators that assembled to witness then. In one of these spectacles
they had a procession of statues of the gade. There were twelve of
‘these statues, sculptured with great art, and they were borne along on
elevated pedestals, with censers, and incense, and various. cerenonies
of honage, while vast multitudes’ of spectators lined the way. There
as a thirteenth statue, nore magnificent. than the other twelve,
hich represented Philip himself in the character of 2 god.

‘nis was not, however, so iapious as St would at first view sees, for
‘the gods whom the ancients worshiped were, in fact, only deifications
of old heroes and kings who had Lived in early tines, and had acquired
3 reputation for supernatural powers by the Fame of their exploits,
exaggerated in descending by tradition in superstitious tines. The
ignorant multitude accordingly, in those days, looked up to a Living
icing with almost the sane reverence and homage which they felt for
thelr deified heroes; and these deified heroes Furnished then with all
‘the ideas they had of God. Making 2 monarch a god, therefore, was no
very extravagant flattery!

After the procession of the statues passed along, there cane bodies of
‘troops, with trumpets sounding and banners flying. The officers rode
fon horses elegantly caparisoned, and prancing proudly. These troops
escorted princes, enbassadars, generals, and great officers of state,
a1 gorgeously decked in their robes, and wearing their badges and
insignia.

‘At length King Philip hinself appeared in the procession. He had
arranged to have large space left, in the middle of uhich he was to
Walk, This sas done in order to make his position the more
Conspicuous, and to mark wore strongly Ris own high distinction above
a11 the other potentates present on the occasion. Guards preceded and
Followed hin, though at considerable distance, az has been already
said, He was hincelf clothed with white robes, and his head was
adorned with a splendid crown.

‘he procession was moving toward a great theater, where certain ganes
and spectacles were to be exhibited. The statues of the gods were to
be taken into the theater, and placed in conspicuous positions there,
4n the view of the assembly, and then the procession itself was to
Follo. All the statues had’ entered except that of Philip, which was
Just at the door, and Philip himself was advancing in the midst of the
Space left for him, up the avenve by which the theater was. approached,
when an occurrence took place by which the whole character of the
Scene, the destiny of Alexander, and the fate of Fifty nations, was
suddenly and totally changed. Zt was this. An officer of the guards,
wo had his position in the procession near the king, was seen
‘avancing inpetuously toward hin, through the space which separated
hhin from the rest, and, before the spectators had tine even to wonder
wat he was going to do, he stabbed him to the heart. Philip fell down
In the street and died.

AA scene of indescribable tunult and confusion ensued. The murderer was
mediately cut to pieces by the other guards. They found, however,
before he was dead, that At waz Pausansss, 2 nan oF high standing and
influence, a general officer of the guards. He had had horses
Provided, ‘and other assistance ready, to enable him to make his
escape, but he was cut down by the guards before he could avail
hinsel? of then.

tn officer of state immediately hastened to Alexander, and announced
‘to hin his father's death and his oun accession to the throne. An


Page 13, Instance 0, Class: Text
assembly of the leading comselers and statesmen was called, in a
hasty and tumltuous manner, and Alexander was prociained king with
prolonged and general acelanations. Alexander sage a speech an reply.
‘ihe great assembly looked upon his youthful form and face as he arose,
and Listened with intense interest to hear what he had to say. He was
between nineteen and twenty years of age} but, though thus really 3
boy, he spoke with all the decision and confidence of an energetic
fran, He seid that he should at once assune his Father's position, and
Carry forward his plans. He hoped to do this so efficiently that every
thing would go directly onward, just as if his father had Continued to
Live, and that the nation would Find that the only change which had
taken place was in the -nane_ of the king.

‘he mative which induced Pausanias to surder Philip in this sanner was
never fully ascertained, There were vardous opinions about 4¢. one
Nas, that it was an act of private revenge, occasioned by sone neglect
for injury which Pausanias had received from Philip. Others thought
that the murder was instigated by a party in the states of Greece, who
were hostile to Philip, and unwilling that he shold command the
allied armies that were about to penetrate into Asia. Demosthenes, the
Celebrated orator, was Philip's great eneay anong the Greeks. Many of
his most powerful oration: were made for the purpose of arousing his
countrymen to resist his ambitious plans and to curtail his power.
‘hese crations were called his Philippics, and from this origin nas
arisen the practice, which has prevailed ever since that day, of
applying the ters philippics to denote, in general, any strongly
denunciatory harangues..

Now Demosthenes, it is said, who was at this tine in athens, announced
tthe death of Philip in an Athenian aesembly before it wae possible
‘that the nevs could have been conveyed there. He accounted for his
early possession of the intelligence by saying it was communicated to
hin by some of the gods. Many persons have accordingly supposed that
the plan of assassinating Philip was devised in Greece; that
Desosthenes was a party to it} that Pausanias was the agent for
carrying it into execution; and that Demosthenes was so. confident of
tthe success of the plot, and exulted so much in this certainty, that
he could not resist the temptation of thus anticipating its

‘Tere were other persons who thought that the Persians_ had plotted
and accomplished his murder, having induced Pausanias to execute the
eed by the promise of great rewards. 5 Pausanias himself, however,
had been instantly killed, there was no opportunity of gaining any
Anforaation fron him on the motives of his conduct, even sf he would
have been disposed to impart any.

Ise all events, Alexander found hinself suddenly elevated to one of the
fost conspicuous positions in the whole political world. It was nat
‘Simply thst he succeeded to the throne of Macedon; even this would
have been a lofty position for so young a man; but Macedon was a very
Small part of the realm over hich Phitip had extended his power. The
ascendency which he Rad acquired over the whole Grecian expire, and
the vast arrangesents he had made for an dncursion into Asia, made
Alexander the object of universal interest and attention. The question
was, whether Alexander should attenpt to take his Father's place in
respect to all this general power, and undertake to sustain and carry
fn his vast projects, or whether he should content himself with
ruling, in quiet, over his native country of Macedon

ost prudent persons would have advised 2 young prince, under such
Cireunstances, to have decided upon the latter course. ‘ut Alexander
had na idea of bounding his ambition ty any such Limits. He resolved
to spring at once completely into his father's seat, and not only to
possess hinself of the whole of the pover which his father had


Page 14, Instance 0, Class: Text
Vigorous erforts for a great extension of it.
his first plan was to punish his father's murderers. He caused the
Circunstances of the case t0 be investigated, and the persone
Suspected of having been connected with Pausansas in the plot to be
tried. Although the designs and motives of the murderers could never
be fully ascertained, still several persons were found guilty of
participating in it, and were condeaned to death and publicly
executed
Alexander next decided not to aake any change in his father's
appointments to the great offices of state, but to let all the
departments of public affairs go on in the sane hands as before. How
Sagacious a Line of conduct waz this! Most andent and enthusiastic
young men, in the cireunstances in which he wae placed, would have
been elated and vain at their elevation, and would have replaced the
old and well-tried servants of the father with personal favorites oF
‘hein own age, inexperienced and incompetent, and as conceited a=
thenselves. Alexander, however, made no such’ changes. He continued the
old officers in command, endeavoring to have every thing go on just as
Seni father had not died.

There were two officers in particular who were the ministers on whom
Philip had wainly relied. Their nanes were Antépater and Parsenso.
ntipater had charge of the civil, and Parsenio of military affairs.
Parnenio was a very distinguished general. He was at this tine nearly
siety years of age. Alexander had great confidence in his military
powers, and felt 2 strong personal attachaent for him. Parwenio
entered into the young king's Service with great readiness, and
cconpanied him through almost the whole of his career. It seemed
Strange to see men of such age, standing, and experience, obeying the
orders of such 2 boy; but there was sonething in the genius, the
ower, and the enthusiass of Alexander's character which inepired
Erdor’in'all_ around hin, and made every one eager to join hie standard
and to aid in the execution of his plans.

Macedon, as will be seen on the following map, was in the northern
part of ‘the country occupied by the Greeks, and the most. powerful
Etates of the confederacy and all the great and influential cities
were south of it. There was Athens, which was magnificently built, its
Splendid citadel crouning a rocky hill in the center of it. Tt was the
great Seat of Literature, philosophy, and the arts, and was thus 2
Genter of attraction for all the civilized world. There was Cordath,
Nich was distinguished for the gayety and pleasure which reigned
There. ALL possible means of luxury and amusement were concentrated
within its yalls. The lovers of knowledge and oF art, from all parts
Of the earth, Flacked to Athens, wnile those in pursuit oF pleasure,
Gissipation, and indulgence chose Corinth for their hone. Corinth was
beautifully’ situated on the isthmus, with prospects of the sea on
either hand. Tt had been a fanous city for a thousand years in
‘Alexander's day.

[Ellustration: MAP OF MACEDON AND GREECE]

‘There was also Thebes. Thebes was farther north than Athens and
Corinth. Tt was situated on an elevated plain, and had, like other
ancient cities, a strong citadel, where there was at this tine a
Macedonian garrison, which Philip had placed there. Thebes was very
wealthy and powerful. it had also been celebrates as the birth-place
of many poets and philosophers, and other eminent wen. Among these was
Pindar, 9 very celebrated poet who had flourished one or two centuries
before the tine of Alexander, His descendants still Lived in Thebes,
and Alexander, sone tine after this, had occasion to confer upon then


Page 15, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘There was Sparta also, called sometimes Lacedamon. The inhabitants of
this clty were faned for their courage, hardinood, and physical
Strength, and for the energy with which they devated thenselves to the
work of war. They were nearly all soldiers, and all the arrangenents
OF the state and of society, and all the plans of education, were
Gesigned to promote military anbition and pride anong the officers and
Fierce and indomitable courage and endurance in the sen.

‘hese cities and many others, with the states which were attached to
‘them, formed a large, and flourishing, and very powerful comunity,
extending over all that part of Greece which ay south of Macedon.
Philip, as has been already said, had established his ov ascendency
over all this region, though it had cost hin many perplexing
hegotiations and some hard-fought battles to do it. Alexander
Considered it soneuhat uncertain whether the people of all these
States and cities would be disposed to transfer readily, to so
youthful a prince as he, the high commission which his father, a very
Powerful monarch and soldier, had extorted fron them with so much
GiFFiculty. what should he do in the cate? Should he give up the
fexpectation of it? should he send eabassadors to thes, presenting his
Elains to occupy his father's place? Or should he not act at all, but
ait quietly at hone in sacedon until they should decide the question?
Instead of doing either of these things, Alexander decided on the very
bold step of setting out hinself, at the head of an army, to march
nto southern Greece, for the purpose of presenting in person, and, if
necessary, of enforcing his claim to the Sane post of honor and power
Mich ad been conferred upon his father. considering all the
Clreusstances of the case, this was perhaps one of the boldest and
fost decided steps of Alexander's whole career. Hany of his hacedondan
Sévisers counseled him not to make such an sttenpt; but Alexander
ould not listen to any such cautions. He collected his forces, and
{et forth at the head of them,

fetween Macedon and the southern states of Greece was a range of Lofty
and almost. inpascable mountains. These mountains extended through the
hole Interior of the country, and the main route leading into
outhern Greece passed around to the eastward of then, where they
terminated in cliFfs, leaving a narrow passage between the clif¥S and
tthe sea, This pacs was called the Pars oF Thersopyla, and it was
considered the key to Greece. There was 2 town nased Anthela near the
pass, on the autward side.

‘There was in those days a sort of general congress or assenbly of the
states of Greece, which wae held fron tine to time, to decide
(questions and disputes in uhich the different states were continually
getting involved with each other. This assenbly was called the
fanphictyonie Council, on account, as is said, of its having been
established by a certain king nated Anphictyon. © meeting of this
council was appointed to receive Alexander. It was to be held at
‘ermopyie, or, rather, at Anthela, which was just without the pass,
and was the usual place at which the council assembled. This was
because the pass use in an intermediate position between the northern
and southern portions of Greece, and thus equally accessible rom
either

In proceeding to the southward, Alexander had First to pass through
‘Thessaly, which was a very powerful state inediately south oF
Macedon. He met with sone show of resistance at first, but not auch,
‘he country was impressed with the boldness and decision of character
manifested in the taking of such a course by so young a man. Then,
too, Alexander, so far as he becane personally known, made a very
Favorable Anpression upon every one. His manly and athletic fora, his
frank and open manners, his spirit, his generosity, and a certain air


Page 16, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Of confidence, independence, and conscious superiority, which were
Combined, as they always are in the case of true greatness, with an
Unaffected and unassuming modesty--these and other traits, ‘which were
‘vious to all who sau hin, in the person and character of Alexander,
fade every one his friend. Comon men take pleasure in yielding £0 the
Snfluence and ascendency of one whose spirde they see and feel ctands
fon a higher eninence and wields higher powers then thei own. They
ike a leader. It 1s true, they must feel confident of his
Superiority; but when this superiority stands out so clearly and
distinctly warked, conbined, too, with ali the graces and attractions
of youth and manly beauty, as it was in the case of Alexander, the
finds of men are Brought very easily and rapidly under ies sway.

‘ihe Thessalians gave Alexander a very favorable reception. They
expressed a cordial readiness to instate him in the position which his
‘Father had occupied. They Joined their forces to his, and proceeded
southward toward the Pass oF theraopyle,

Here the great council was held. Alexander took his place in it as 3
frenber, OF course, he must have been an object of universal. snterest
and attention. The impression which he made here seens to have been
Very favorable. After this assembly separated, Alexander proceeded
Southard, accompanied by hs oun forces, and’ tended by the varsous
princes and potentates of Greece, uith their attendants and

Followers, The feeLings of exultation and pleasure with which the
Young king defiled through the Pass cf Thermopyle, thus attended, must
have been exciting in the extrene.

‘ihe Pass of Thersopyla was a scene strongly associated with ideas of
fllitary glory and renoun. It was here that, about a hundred and Fifty
years before, Leonidas, a Spartan general, with only three hundred
Foldiers, had attenpted to withstand the pressure of an iamense
Persian force which was at that tine invading Greece. He was one of
tthe Kings of Sparta, and he had the conmand, not only of his three
hundred: Spartans, but also of all the allied farces of the Greeks. that
had been assenbled to repel the Persian invasion. with the help of
these allies he withstood the Persian forces for sone tine, and as the
pase was £0 narrow between the cliffs and the sea, he wae enabled to
Fesist then successfully. At length, however, a strong detachnent from
‘the inmense Persian anay contrived to find their way over the
ountains and around the pass, so as to establish themselves in 2
position fram which they could cone doxn upon the small creek army in
Ehein rear. Leonidas, perceiving this, ordered all his allies from
the other states of Greece to withdraw, leaving hinself and his three
hundred countrymen alone in the defile

be did not expect to repel his enemies or to defend the pass. He knew
that he mist die, and all his brave followers with him, and that the
torrent of invaders would pour down through the pass over their
bodies, Gut he considered hincelf stationed there to defend the
passage, and he would not desert his post. When the battle care on he
Nas the’ first to fall. The soldiers gathered around hin and defended
his dead body as long as they could. At length, overpowered by the
Amense nunbers of their foes, they were all killed but one aan. He
fade his escape and returned to Sparta. A monument was erected on the
Spot with this inscription: "Go, traveler, to sparta, and say that ue
Lie here, on the spot at which ue were stationed to defend our
country.

Alexander passed through the defile. He advanced to the great cities
south of it--to Athens, to Thebes, and to Corinth. another great
‘Assembly of all the monarchs and potentates of Greece was convened in


Page 17, Instance 0, Class: Text
Noun Hamus.--Thrace.--The Habrus.--Thrace.--Valley of the
Danube.--Revolt anong the northern nations.--Alexander marches

north. --Old Soreas.--Contest atong the mountains.--The

oaded wagons.--Alexander’'s victorious march.--Houths of the
Danube.--Alexander resolves to cross the Danube. -Preparations.--The
ven crossed.--The landing.--Northern nations subdued. -Alexander
returns to Hacedon,--Rebellion of Thebes, -Slege of the citadel. --Sudden
appearance of Alexander.--He invests Thebes.--the Thebans refuse

‘to surrender.--Storming a city.--Underaining.--Kaking 2
breach.--surrender.--carrying a city by assault.--Scenes of

horror. Thebes carried by assault. --Great loss of Life.--Thebes
destroyed.--the manner of doing it.--Alexander's aoderation and
forbearance.--Fanily of Pindar spared.--The nusber saved.--EFForts

of Denosthenes.--The boy proves to be a man.--All disaffection
Subdued. -Horal effect of the destruction of Thebes. -Alexander
Petunns to Macedon, --Celebrates his victories

‘he country which was formerly occupied by Macedon and the other
states of Greece is now Turkey in Europe. In the northern part of it
4s a vast chain of tountains called now the Balkan. In Alexander's day
S€ was Mount Hanus. ‘This chain forms a broad belt of lofty and
Uuninhabitable land, and extends fron the Black Sea to the Adriatic.

| branch of this mountain range, called Rhodope, extends southwardly
from about the middle of its length, as may be seen by the map.
Rhodope separated Macedonia from a iange and powerful country, which
‘ae occupied by a somewhat rude but warlike race of sen. This’ country
was Thrace. Thrace was one great fertile basin or valley, sloping
Rouand the center in every direction, so that all the streams fron the
mountains, increased by the rains uhich fell over the whole surface of
‘the ground, flowed together into one river, which meandered through
the center of the valley, and Flowed out at last into the Agean Sea
‘he nane of this eiver was the Hebrus. All this may be seen
distinctly upon the map

[Ellustration: MAP OF MACEDON AND GREECE]

‘The Balkan, or Mount Hanus, a5 it was then called, formed the great
northern frontier of Hacedon and Thrace. From the sunnits of the
range, locking northward, the eye surveyed a vast extent of land,
Constituting one of the ost extensive and fertile valleys on the
lobe. Te was the valley of the Oanube. Tt was inhabited, in those
flays, by rude trdbes whom the Greeks and Romane always designated a5
barbarians. They were, at any rate, wild and warlike, and, as they had


Page 17, Instance 1, Class: Text
conection by kis perscasl qualities must have been favorable in the
fextrene. That sucha youthful prince should be Selected by so powerful
2 confederation of nations az their leader in such an enterprise a=
They were about to engage in, indicates a most extraordinary power on
his part of acquiring an ascendency over the minds of men, and of
Anprescing all with 3 sense of his comanding superiority. Alexander
retuned to Macedon from his expedition to the southward in triumph,
fand began at once to arrange the affairs of his Kingdon, so 3s to be
ready to enter, unesbarrassed, upon the great career of conquest which
he imagined was before hin.


Page 18, Instance 0, Class: Text
institutions or their history. he know nathing of them, or of the
other nalf-civilized nations that occupied the central parts of Europe
Sn those days, except what their inveterate and perpetual enemies have
‘thought fit to tell us. According to their story, these countries were
Filled with nations and tribes of a wild and half-savage character,
wo could be kept in check only by the most vigoraus exertion oF
military power.

Soon after Alexander's return into Macedon, he learned that there were
Syaptons of revolt anong these nations. Philip had subdued them, and
established the kind of peace which the Greeks and Romans were
accustomed to enforce upon their neighbors. But now, as they had heard
hat Philip, wha had been co terrible a warrior, was no more, and that
his son, searcely ut of his teens, had succeeded to the throne, they
thought a sultable occasion had arrived to try their strength.
Alexander nade inmediate arrangements for moving northward with his
fanay to settle this question

He conducted his forces through a part of Thrace without aecting with
any Serious resistance, and approached the mountains. The soldiers
ooked upon the rugged’ precipices and lofty suamits before them with
‘ne. These northeen mountains were the seat and throne, in the
naginations of the Grecks and Romans, of old Boreas, the hoary god of
‘the north wind. They conceived of him ae dueling anong those cold and
Stormy summits, and making excursions in winter, carrying with him his
vast stores of frost and’ snow, over the southern valleys and plains.
he had wings, a long beard, and white locks, a11 powdered with Flakes
of snow. Instead of feet, his body terminated in tails of serpents,
Nich, as he Flew along, ‘lashed the ain, writhing from under his,
Fobes He was violent and inpetuous in teuper, rejoicing in the
(devastation of winter, and in all the subline’ phenomena of tenpests,
cold, and snow. The Greek conception of Boreas made an inpression upon
‘the human sind that twenty centuries have not been able to efface. The
orth wind of winter is personified as Boreas to the present day in
the Literature of every fation of the Western world.

‘ihe Thracian forces had assenbled in the defiles, with other troops
From the northern countries, to arrest Alexander's march, and he had
Sone difficulty in repelling then. They had got, it 4s said, sone sort
(of loaded wagons upon the summit of an ascent, in the pass of the
fountains, up which Alexander's forces would have to march. These
Wagons were to be run down upon the as they ascended. Alexander
Ordered his men to advance, notwithstanding this danger. He directed
‘thom, here it was practicable, to open to one side and the other, and
allow the descending wagon to pass through. wen this could not be
one, they were to fall down upon the ground when they saw this
Strange military engine coming, and locking their shields together
over their heads, allow the wagon to roll on over them, bracing up
energetically against its weight. Notwithstanding these precautions,
land the prodigious muscular power with which they were carried into
effect, some of the men were crushed. The great body of the army was,
however, unharned; az son as the force of the wagons was spent, they
rushed up the ascent, and attacked their enemies with their pikes. The
barbarians fled in all directions, terrified at the force and
Anwulnerability of men whom loaded wagons, rolling over their bodies
down 2 steep descent, could not kill.

Alexander advanced from one conquest like this to another, moving
toward the northward and eastward after he had crossed the mountains,
Until at length he approached the mouths of the Danube. Here one of
the great chieftain: of the barbarian tribes had taken up his
position, with his fanily and court, and a principal part of his army,
Upon an island called Peuce, which may be seen upon the map at the
hecimaine af thie chapter, thie islont divided the cumrent or the.


Page 19, Instance 0, Class: Text
bbe best to endeavor to effect a landing upon the upper point of it.

To make this attempt, he collected all. the boats and vessels which he
could obtain, and embarked his troops in them above, directing them to
11 doun with the cuprent, and to land upon the isiand. This plan,
however, did not succeed very well; the current was too rapid for the
proper management of the boats, The shores, too, were Lined with the
Forces of the enemy, who discharged showers of Spears and arrows at
‘the men, and pushed off the boats uhen they attempted £0 land.
Alexander at length gave up the attempt, and concluded to Leave the
Ssland, and to cross the river itself further above, and thus carry
‘the war into the very heart of the country.

It is 2 serious undertaking to get a great body of men and horses
across 2 broad and rapid river, when the people of the country have
done all in their power to renove or destroy all possible means of
transit, and when hostile bands sre on the epposite bank, to enbarrass
and inpede the operations by every mode in their power. Alexander,
however, advanced to the undertaking with great resolution. To cross
‘the Danube especially, with 2 military force, was, in those days, in
‘the estination of the’ Greeks and Romans, a very great exploit. The
river was so distant, so broad and rapid, and its banks were bordered
land defended by such’ ferocious foes, that to cross its eddying tide,
land penetrate into the unknown and unexplored regions beyond, Leaving
‘the broad, and deep, and rapid stream to cut off the hopes of retreat,
Snplieg the possession of extrene self-reliance, courage, and
decision.

Alexander collected all the canoes and boats which he could obtain up
and down the riven. He built large rafts, attaching to. them the skins
of beasts sewed together and inflated, to give them buoyancy. hen
all was ready, they began the transportation of the army in the night,
Sn a place anere the eneny had nat expected that the atteqpt would
have been sade. there were a thousand horses, with their riders, and
four thousand foot soldiers, to be conveyed across. It is. customary,
4n such cases, to swin the horses over, leading then by lines, the
fends of whien'are held by nen in boats: The wen thenselves, with all
‘the arms, aimunition, and baggage, had to be carried over in the boats
or upon the rafts. Before morning the whole was accomplished.

‘he army landed in a field of grain. This circumstance, which 1s
casuatly mentioned by historians, and also the story of the wagons in
{the pastes of Mount Hanus, proves that these northern nations were not
absolute barbarians in the sense in which that term 42 used at the
Present day. The arts of cultivation and of construction must have
fade sone progress among then, at any rate; and they proved, by some
Of their conflicts with Alexander, that they were well-trained and
well-disciplined soldiers.

‘The Macedonians swept down the waving grain with their pikes, to open
a vay for the advance of the cavalry, and early in the morning
‘Alexander found and attacked the aray of his enemies, who were
Utterly astonished at finding hin on their side of the river. AS may
be eacily anticipates, the barbarian anny was beaten in the battle
that ensued. Their city nae taken, the booty was taken back across the
Danube to be distributed anong the soldiers of the army. the
neighboring nations and tedbes were overaued and subdued by this
exhibition of Alexander's courage and energy. He made satisfactory
treaties with them all; took hostages, where necessary, to secure the
observance of the treaties, and then recrossed the Danube and set out
fon his return to Macedon.

He found that it was time_ for him to return. The southern cities and


Page 20, Instance 0, Class: Text
which his father had held. The Spartans and some others were opposed
to hin. The party thus opposed were inactive and silent while
Alexander was in their country, on his first visit to southern Greece;
but after his return they began to contenplate more decisive action,
and afterward, when they heard of his having undertaken so desperate
an enterprise as going northward with his forces, and actually
Crossing’ the Danube, they considered him as so completely out of the
ay that they grew very courageous, and meditated open rebellion,

‘he city of Thebes did at length rebel. Philip had conquered this city
in former struggles, and had left a Macedonian garrison there in the
Citadel. The name of the citadel was Cadneia, The officers of the
garrison, supposing that all was secure, left the soldiers in the
Eltadel,”and cane, thenselves, down to the city to reside. Things were
fn this’ condition when the rebellion against Alexander's authorsty
brake out. They killed the officers who were in the city, and sunmoned
‘the garrison to surrender. The garrison refused, and the Thebans
besieged it.

‘nis outbreak ageinst Alexander's authority was in a great measure the
work of the great orator Denasthenes, who spared no exertions to
[rouse the southeen states of Greece to resist Alexander's. dominion
he especially exerted ali the povers of his eloquence in xthens in the
fendeavor to Bring over the Athenian to take sides ageinst Alexander
née things were in this state--the Thebans having understood that
Alexander had been killed at the north, and supposing that, at all
events, if this report should not be true, he was, without doubt,
Still far avay, Snvolved in contentions with the barbarian nations,
from which it was not to be expected that he could be very speedily
extricated--the whole city wae suddenly thrown into. consternation by
‘the peport that a Large Macedonian army was approaching from the
north, with Alexander at its head, and that it was, in fact, close
Upon thew.

4 was now, however, t00 late for the Thebans to repent of what they
had done. They were far too deeply inpressed with a conviction of the
decision and energy of Alexander's character, as sanifested in the
ole course of his proceedings since he began to reign, and
especially by his suaden reappearance among them so soon after this
futbreak against his authority, to imagine that there was now any hope
for then except in determined and successful resistance. They shut
‘thenselves up, therefore, in their city, and prepared to defend
thenselver to'the last extremity.

Alexander advanced, and, passing round the city toward the southern
Side, established his head-quarters there, 50 as to cut off
effectually all communication with Athens’ and the Southern cities. He
‘then extended his posts all around the place so a© to invest it
entirely. These preparations made, he paused before he conpenced the
work’ of subduing the city, to_give the inhabitants an opportunity to
Submit, if they would, without conpelling hin to resort to force. The
conditions, however, which he imposed were such that the Thebans
Thought it best to take their chance of resistance. They refused to
surrender, and Alexander began to prepare for the onset.

be was very soon ready, and with his characterdstic ardor and enerey
he determined on attenpting to carry the eity at once by assault,
Fortified cities generally require a siege, and sonetines a very” long
‘lege, before they can be subdued. the aray within, sheltered behing
‘the parapets of the walls, and standing there ina position above that
of their assailants, have’ such great advantages in the contest that 9
Jong time often elapses before they can be conpelled to surrender. The
bbesiegers have to invest the city on ail sides to cut off all supplies


Page 21, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Panty couse areas mo nonce exe way in
‘he tine for making an assault upon a besieged city depends upon the
comparative strength of those within and without, and also, still
fore, on the ardor and resolution of the beslegers. in warfare, an
aray) in investing a fortified place, spends ordinarily a considerable
‘tine’ in burrowing their vay along in’trenches, half under ground,
Until they get near enough to plant their cannon where the balls can
take effect upon zone part of the wall. Then sone tine usually elspses
before a breach is made, and the garrison is sufficiently weakened to
ender an assault advisable. when, however, the tine at length
arrives, the most bold and desperate portion of the army are
designated to lead the attack. sundles of small branches of trees are
Provided to fill up ditches with, and ladders for sounting enbanknents
land walls. The city, sonetines, seeing these preparations going on,
fand convinced that the assault will be successful, surrenders before
ie is made. hen the besieged do thus surrender, they save themselves
fa vast amount of suffering, for the carrying of @ city by assault 1s
Perhaps the most horrible tcene which the passions and crimes of men
ever offer to the view oF heaven.
it 4s horrible, because the soldiers, exasperated to fury by the
resistance which they meet with, and’by the awful malignity of the
passions always excited in the hour of battle, if they succeed, burst
Suddenly into the precincts of donestic 1ife, and Find sometimes
thousands of fanilies--nothers, and children, and defenseless
naidens--at the sercy of passions excited to’ phrensy. soldiers, under
Such circunstances, can fot be restrained, and no imagination can
conceive the horrots of the sacking of a city, carried by assault,
after a protracted siege. Tigers do not spring upon theit prey with
treater ferocity than nan springs, under such circumstances, to the
erpetration of every possible cruelty upon his fellow man. Aéter an
Srdinary battle upon an open field, the conquerors have only men,
Snmed 1ike themselves, to wreak their vengeance upon. The scene is
fnful enough, however, here. But in carrying 2 city by storm, which
‘takes place Usually at an unexpected tine, and often in the night, the
faddened and victorious ascaulter suddenly buret into the sacred
Feenes of domestic peace, and seclusion, and love--the very worst of
nen, filled with the worst of passions, stimulated by the resistance
‘they have encountered, and licensed by’ their victory to give all these
passions the fullest and most unrestricted gratification. To plunder,
burn, destroy, and Kill, are the lighter and more harmless of the
crines they perpetrate.

‘Thebes was carried by assault. Alexander did not wait for the slow
operations of a Siege. He watched a favorable opportunity, and burst
ver and though the outer line of fortifications which defended the
city. The attempt to do this was very desperate, and the loss of LiFe
great; but it was triumphantly successful. The Thebans were driven
back toward the inner wall, and began to crowd in, through the gates,
into the city, in terrible confusion, The Macedonians were close upon
‘them, and pursuers and pursued, struggling together, and trampling
Upon’ and killing each other as they went, flowed ‘in, like 9 boiling
land raging torrent which nothing could resist, through the open
archway.

1 was inpossible to close the gates. The whole Macedonian force were
oan in full possession of the now defenseless houses, and for nany
hours Screans, and wailings, and cries of horear and despair testified
to the awful atrocity of the crimes attendant on the sacking of 3
city. At length the Soldiery were restrained. Order was restored. The
aray'retired to the posts assigned thes, and Alexander began to
deliberate shat he should do with the conquered tovn


Page 22, Instance 0, Class: Text
He determined to destroy it--to offer, once fer all, = terrible
fexanple of the consequences of rebellion ageinct hin. The case was not
fone, he considered, of the ordinary conquest of a _foe_. the states of
Greece--Thebes with the rest-chad ence solemnly conferred upon him the
authority against which the Thebans had now rebelled. They were
“Rraitors_; therefore, in his judgment, not mere enenies, and he
Geterained that the penalty should be utter destruction.
fut, in carrying this teresble decision into effect, he acted in 2
ammer so deliberate, discriminating, and cautious, as to diminish
Very much the inritation and resentaent which it would otherwise have
Caused, and to give it its full moral effect ae 2 measure, not oF
fangry resentment, but of calm and deliberate retribution--just and
Proper, according £0 the ideas of the tine. in the first place, he
Feleased all the priests. Then, in respect to the rest of the
population, he discrininated carefully between those who had Favored
{the rebellion and those who had been true to their allegiance to hin.
‘he latter vere allowed to depart in safety. And 16, in the case oF
any family, 1t could be shown that one individual hed been on the
Macedonian’ side, the single instance of Fidelity outweighed the
‘treason of the Gther members, and the whole family was saved.

And the officers appointed to carry out these provisions were Liberal
din the interpretation and application of them, so as to save as many
as there could be any possible pretext for saving. The descendants and
Fanily connections of Pindar, the celebrated poet, who has been
already mentioned 25 having been born in Thebes, were all pardoned
alse, whichever side they may have taken in the’ contest. The truth
was, that Alexander, though he had the sagacity to see that he was
Placed in circumstances where prodigious soral effect in strengthening
his position would be produced by an act of great severity, was swayed
by so many generous Inpuises, which raised him above the ordinary
excitenents of irritation and revenge, that he had every desire to
fake the suffering as light, and to Lisit it by as narrow bounds, as,
‘the ature of the case would allow. He doubtless also had an
Anstinctive feeling that the moral effect itself of so dreadful 2
retribution as he was about to inflict upon the devoted city would be
Very much increased by forbearance and generosity, and by extreme
regard for the security and protection oF those who had shown
thenselver his friends.

After all these exceptions had been made, and the persons to whom
‘they applied had been disnissed, the rest oF the population were sold
nto slavery, and then the city'was utterly and entirely destroyed.
‘The number thus sold was about thirty thousand, and six thousand had
been Killed in the assault and storwing of the city. Thus Thebes was
wade 9 ruin and a desolation, and it remained so, a sonunent of
Alexander's terrible energy and decision, for twenty years.

‘ihe effect of the destruction of Thebes upon the other cities and
states of Greece was what might have been expected. It cane upon then
Like a thunder-bolt. Although Thebes was the only city which had
‘openly revolted, there had been strong syaptone of disaffection in
any other placés. Denosthenes, who had been silent while Alexander
was present’ in Greece, during his first visit there, had again been
endeavoring to arouse’ opposition to Macedonian ascendency, and to
concentrate and bring out into action the influences which were
hostile to Alexander. He said in his speeches that Alexander was 2
sere boy, and that 1¢ was disgraceful for such cities as Athens,
Sparta, and Thebes to subsit to his sway. Alexander had heard of these
‘enings, and, as he was coming down into Greece, through the straits
of Thermopyix, before the destruction of Thebes, he said, "They say I
fan a boy. Tan coming to teach then that I am a'man."


Page 23, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘they imagined his entangled among the mountains and wilds of unknown
regions in the north; his sudden investiture of Thebes; the assault;
‘the calm deliberations in respect to the destiny of the city, and the
Slow, cautious, discriminating, but inexorable energy with which the
decision was carried into effect, all coming in such rapid succession,
Impressed the Grecian commonwealth with the conviction that the
personage they had to deal with was no boy in character, whatever
Fight be his years. All symptons of disaffection against the rule of
Alexander instantly disappeared, and did not soon revive again.

Nor was this effect due entirely to the terror inspired by the
retribution which had been visited upon Thebes. All Greece was
npressed with 2 new adnirstion for Alexander's character ae they
ltnessed these events, an which his impetuous energy, his cool and
Calm decision, his forbearance, his sagnanimity, and his faithfulness
to his friends, were all so conspicuous. His pardoning the priests,
ether they had been for him or against hin, sade every friend of
religion incline to nis favor. The sane interposition in behalf of the
post's family and descendants spoke directly to the heart of every
ost, orator, historian, and philosopher throughout the country, and
fended to sake all the lovers of literature his friends. His
agnanimity, also, in deciding that one single friend of his in 3
family should save that family, instead of ordaining, as 2 more
Shore-sighted conqueror would have done, thst a single eneny should
Condenn it, must have avakened 2 strong feeling of gratitude and
regard in the hearts of all who could appreciate Fidelity to Friends
and generosity of spirit. Thus, 95 the news of the destruction of
‘Thebes, and the selling of so large a portion of the inhabitants into
Slavery, spread over the land, its effect was to turn over so great 2
part of the population to a feeling cf aairation of Alexander's
Character, and confidence in his extraordinary powers, a© to leave
only a suill minority disposed to take sides with the punished rebels,
for resent the destruction of the city.

From Thebes Alexander proceeded to the southward. Deputations from the
cities were sent to hin, congratulating him on his victories, and
offering their adhesion to his cause, His influence and ascendency
Seened firmly established now in the country of the Greeks, and in due
tne he retutned to Macedon, and celebrated at gz, which was at this
Hine his capital, the establishment and canfireation of hi power, Dy
gates, shows, spectacles, illusinations, and sacrifices to the gods,
Offered on ascale of the greatest pomp and magnificence. He was now
ready to turn his thoughts toward the Long-projected plan of the
expedition into Asia


Page 23, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘The expedition inta Asia.--Debates upon it.--objections of
Antipater and Parmenia.--Their foresight.--Alexander decides

to go.--Preparations.--Description of Thessaly.--Vale of
eape.--Olypus.--Pelion and Gssa.--Alexander's generosity.--Love
of money.--Religious sacrifices and spectacles.--ancient fara

Of worship.--Retigious instincts.--The nine Mises.--Festivities

4 honor of Jupiter.--spectacles and shows.--Alexander’s
route.--Alexander begins his march.--fonantic adventure.--The plain
of Tray.--Tenedae.--Hount.Ida.--The Seamander.--The Trojan war,--Drea
Of Prian’s wife.--Gxposure of Paris.--The apple of discord.--The
ispute about the apple.--Decided in favor of Venus.--the story


Page 24, Instance 0, Class: Text
Helen. -—Destruction of Troy.--Homer’s writings. --Achilles.--The
Styx. Character of chilles.--Aganennon.--Death of Patroclus.--Hector
Slain by Achilles.--Alexande* proceeds to Troy.--Neptune.--Landing of
Alexander.--Sacrifices to the gods.--Alexander proceeds on his
warch.--Alexander spares Lanpsacus.—-Arrival at the Granicus.
on Alexander's arrival in Macedon, he immediately began to turn his
attention to the subject of the invasion of Asia. He was full of ardor
and enthusiasm to carry this project into effect. Considering his
fextrene youth, and the captivating character of the enterprise, it is
Strange that he should have exercised so auch deliberation and’ caution
as his conduct did really evince. He had now settled every thing in
‘the most thorough manner, both within his dominions. and anong the
nations on his borders, and, as it seened to him, the time had cone
Men he was to commence active preparations for the great Asiatic
campaign.

He brought the subject before his ministers and counselors. they, in
general, concurred with hin in opinion. There were, however, two who
ere in’ doubt, or rather who were, in fact, opposed to the plan,
Though they expressed their nan-concurrence in the form oF doubts.
‘These two persons were Antipater and Parnenio, the venerable officers
wna have been already mentioned as having served Philip so faithfully,
nd ae teansferring, on the death of the father, their attachnent. and
allegiance at once to the son.

Antipater and Parmenio represented to Alexander that if he were to go
to Asia at that tine, he would put to extrene hazard all the interests
of Macedon. AS he had no fanily, there was, of course, no direct heir
fo the crown, and, In case of ay misfortune happening by which his,
Life should be lost, Macedon would becone at once the prey of
‘contending factions, which would immediately arise, each presenting
Ste oun candidate for the vacant throne, The sagacity and’ foresight
wich these statesmen evinced in these suggestions were. abundantly
Confirmed in the end. Alexander did die in Asia, his vast kingdom at
fonce fell into pieces, and it was desolated with internal conotions
and civil wars for a Long period after his death.

Parmenio and antipater accordingly advised the king to postpone his,
expedition. They advised hin to seek wife anong the princesses oF
Greece, and then to settle down quietly to the duties of donestic
ife, and to the government of hiz kingdom for 3 few years; then,
vinen every thing should have becone settled and consolidated in
Greece, and his fanily was established in the hearts of his
countrymen, he could leave Hacedon more safely. Public affairs would
i on More’ steadily while he lived, and, in case of his death, the
Crown would descend, with comparatively Little danger of civil
comotion, to his hein.

fut Alexander was fully decided against any such policy as this. He
resolved to enbark in the great expedition at once. He concluded to
wake Antipater his vicegerent in Macedon during his absence, and to
‘ake Parwenio with hin into Asia. It will be renenbered that Antipater
was the statesman and Parwenio the general; that is, antipater had
been employed nore by Philip in civil, and Paraenio in military
affairs, though in those days every body who was in public Life was
fore or less a soldier.

Alexander left an army of ten or twelve thousand sen with Antipater
for the protection of Macedon. He organized anather army of about
‘thirty-five thousand to go with him. This was considered @ very small
aray for such a vast undertaking. One or two hundred years beFare this
tine, Darius, a king of Persia, had invaded Greece with an army of


Page 25, Instance 0, Class: Text
eee eee ee eee ee eee SO Resaesare wenn @ Breas use’
ess’ than one tenth part of the force.
Of Alexander's army of thirty-five thousand, thirty thousand were foot
Soldiers, and about Five thousand were horse. Hore than half the whole
aray was’ from Macedon. The remainder was from the southern states. of
Greece. & large body of the horse was from Thessaly, which, as will be
seen on the map, [A] was a country South of Macedon. It was, in Fact,
one broad expanded valley, with mountains all around. Torrents
descended From these mountains, forsing streams which flowed in
Currents more and more deep and slow as they descended into the
Plaine, and conbining at last into one central river, which flowed to
he eattard, and escaped fron the environage of mountains through 3
host celebrated dell called the Vale of Tempe. On the north of this,
Valley is Olympus, and on the south the two twin sountains Pelion and
Ossa. There was an ancient story of a war in Thessaly between the
Blanés uno were imagined to have lived there in very early days, and
fhe gods. The giants piled Pelion upon Ossa to enable then to get UP
to heaven in their assault upon their celestial enenies. The fable has
led to. proverb which prevails in every language in Europe, by which
all extravagant and unheard-of exertions to accomplish an end te said
fo be a piling of Pelion upon Ossa.
[Footnote A: At the conencenent of Chapter $44.)
‘hessaly was famous for Sts horses and its horsemen. The slopes of the
ountains furnished the bast of pasturage for the rearing of the
faninals, and the plains below afforded broad and open fields for
Eraining and exercising the bodies of cavalry forsed by means of thes.
‘he Thessalian horses were fanous throughout all Greece. Bucephalus,
was peared in Thessaly.
Alexander, as king of Macedon, possessed extensive estates and
revenues, hich were his oun personal property, and were independent
of the revenues oF the state. Before setting out on his expedition, he
apportioned these anong his great officers and generals, both those
ho were to go and those who were £0 remoin, He evinced great
Benerosity in this, but it was, after all, the spirit of axbition,
fore than that of generosity, which led him to do it. The two grest
Ampulses which aninated hin were the pleasure of doing great deeds,
and the fane and glory of having done then. These two principles are
Very distinet in thei nature, though often conjoined. They were
aranount and supreme in Alexander's character, and every other busan
Principle was subordinate to then. Money was to him, accordingly, only
2 means to enable him to accomplish these ends. His’ distributing his
estates and revenues in the manner above described was only 3
Judicious appropriation of the money to the pronation of the great
ands he wished to attain; it was expenditure, not gift. Tt answered
Sdnirably the end he had in view. His friends all looked upon him 25
@xtrenely generous and self-sacrificing. They asked hin what he had
reserved for himself. "Hope," said Alexander
‘ke length all things were ready, and Alexander began to celebrate the
religious Sacrifices, spectacles, and shows which, in those days,
aluays preceded great undertakings of this kind. there was a great
Cerenony in honor of Jupiter and the nine Muses, which had long been
Celebrated in Macedon ae 2 sort of annual national: festival. Alexander
how caused great preparations for this festival.
In the days of the Greeks, public worship and public anusenent were
Combined In one and the sane series of spectacles and cerenonies. A)
orship was a theatrical show, and almost all shows were Fras of
Norship. The religious instincts of the human heart denand sone sort
Of syapathy and aid, real or imaginary, from the invisible world, in


Page 26, Instance 0, Class: Text
grest ond solemn undertakings, und in every senentous crisis in its
history. It 4s true that Alexander's solaiers, about to leave their
hoses to go to another quarter of the globe, and into scenes of danger
and death from which it vas very improbable that sany of thes would
fever return, had no other celestial protection to lock up to than the
Spirits of ancient heroes, who, they inagined, had, somehow or other,
found their final hone n'a sort of heaven anong the sunnite of the
mountains, where they reigned, in sone sense, over hunan affairs; but
nis, small as it seons to us, was a great deal to then. They felt,
Men’ sacrificing to these gods, that they were invoking their presence
land sympathy. These deities having been engaged in the sane
enterprises thenselves, and animated with the sane hopes and Fears,
the soldiers imagined that the semi-husan divinities invoked by hem
would take an interest in their dangers, and rejoice 1s their success.
‘he Muses, in honor of whom, as well as Jupiter, this great
Nacedonian festival uas held, were nine singing’ and dancing saidens,
beautiful in countenance and’ fora, and enchaneangly graceful in all
their movenents. They case, the ancients imagined, fron Theace, in the
north, and went First to Jupiter upon Mount Olympus, who nade them
goddesses. Afterward they went southward, and spread over Greece,
faking their residence, at last, ina palace upon Mount Parnassus,
Wich will be found upen the map just north of the GULF oF carinth and
Nest of Soeotia. They were worshiped all over Greece and Italy as

the goddesses of music and dancing. In later tines particular sciences
and arts were assigned to then respectively, as history, astronomy,
tragedy, Se, though there wae no distinction of this Kind in early
ays.

‘he festivities in honor of Jupiter and the Mises were continued in
Macedon nine days, a number corresponding with that of the dancing
goddesses. Alexander made very magnificent preparations for the
{celebration on this occasion. He had a tent nade, under which, 4¢ 4s
Seid, a hundred tables could be spread; and here he entertained, day
after day, an enomous company of princes, potentates, and. generals.
he offered sacrifices to such of the gods’ as he supposed it would
please the soldiers to iaagine that they had propitiated. Connected
With these sacrifices and feastings, there were athletic and military
Spectacles and shows--races and wrestlings--and mock contests, with
blunted spears. All these things encouraged and quickened the’ ardor
and animation of the soldiers, It aroused their anbition to
Gistinguish thenselves by their exploits, and gave then an increased
Sand stimulated desire for honor and fame, Thus inspirited by new
fdesines for husan praise, and trusting in the sympathy and protection
lf powers which were all that they conceived of as divine, the army
prepared to set forth from their native land, bidding it a long, and,
Ss it proved to aost of then, a final farewell

fy Following the course of Alexander's expedition upon the map at the
comencenent of chapter ii1., it will be seen that his route lay first
long the northern coasts of’ the fgean Sea. He was to pass from Europe
nto Asia by crossing the Hellespont between Sestos and Abydos. He
Sent a fleet of a hundred and Fifty galleys, of three banks of oars
tach, over the Agean Sea, £0 land at Sestos, and be ready to transport
his army across the straits. the aray, in the mean time, arched by
land. They had to cross the rivers which flow into the Agean Sea on
‘the northern side; but as these rivers were in Macedon, and no
opposition was encountered upon the banks of them, there was no
Serious difficulty in effecting the passage. hen they reached Sestos,
they found the fleet ready there, awaiting their arrival

It is very strikingly characteristic of the mingling of poetic
Sentiment and enthusiasm with calm and calculating business
efficiency, which shone conspievausiy 0 often in Alexander's career,
‘that when he arrived at Sestos, and found that the ships were there,


Page 26, Instance 1, Class: Text
great and solemn undertakings, and in every momentous crisis in its
history. It 4s true that Alexander's solaiers, about to leave their
hoses to go to another quarter of the globe, and into scenes of danger
and death from which it vas very improbable that sany of thes would
fever return, had no other celestial protection to lock up to than the
Spirits of ancient heroes, who, they inagined, had, somehow or other,
found their final hone n'a sort of heaven anong the sunnite of the
mountains, where they reigned, in sone sense, over hunan affairs; but
nis, small as it seons to us, was a great deal to then. They felt,
Men’ sacrificing to these gods, that they were invoking their presence
land sympathy. These deities having been engaged in the sane
enterprises thenselves, and animated with the sane hopes and Fears,
the soldiers imagined that the semi-husan divinities invoked by hem
would take an interest in their dangers, and rejoice 1s their success.
‘he Muses, in honor of whom, as well as Jupiter, this great
Nacedonian festival uas held, were nine singing’ and dancing saidens,
beautiful in countenance and’ fora, and enchaneangly graceful in all
their movenents. They case, the ancients imagined, fron Theace, in the
north, and went First to Jupiter upon Mount Olympus, who nade them
goddesses. Afterward they went southward, and spread over Greece,
faking their residence, at last, ina palace upon Mount Parnassus,
Wich will be found upen the map just north of the GULF oF carinth and
Nest of Soeotia. They were worshiped all over Greece and Italy as

the goddesses of music and dancing. In later tines particular sciences
and arts were assigned to then respectively, as history, astronomy,
tragedy, Se, though there wae no distinction of this Kind in early
days,


Page 27, Instance 0, Class: Text
and the army safe, and that there was no enemy to oppose his landing
fn the Asiatic shore, he lett Parsenio to conduct the transportation
Of the troops across the water, while he hinself went away in 2 single
alley on an excursion of sentiment and romantic adventure. Little
south of the place where his army was to cross, there lay, on the
Asiatic shore, an extended plain, on which were the ruins of Tray. Now
‘ray was the Eity which wae’ the scene of Homer's poens--those poems
wich had excited so mich interest in the mind of Alexander in his
early years; and he determined, instead of crossing the Hellespont
With the main body of his army, to proceed southward in a single
galley, and 1and, himself, on the Asiatic shore, on the very spot
hich the romantic imagination of his youth had’ dwelt upon £0 often
fad so long.

[1llustration: THE PLAIN OF TROY. }

‘oy was situated upon a plain. Homer describes an island off the
coast, naned Tenedos, and a mountain near called Mount Ida. There was
Slzo @ river called the Scanander, the island, the mountain, and the
Fiver renain, preserving their original names’ to the present day,
fexcept that the river 4s now called the ender, but, although various
Vestiges of ancient ruins are found scattered about the plain, no spot
(an be identified ae the site of the city. Some scholars have
aintained that there probably never was such a city; that Hower
Anvented the whole, there being nothing real in all that he describes
except the river, the nountain, and the island. His story is, however,
that there was a'great and powerful city there, with a kingdoe
attached to it, and that this city was besieged by the Greeks for ten
years, at the end of which tine it was taken and destroyed.

‘ihe story of the origin of this war ds substantially this. Prian was
king of Troy. His wife, @ short tine before her son’was born, dressed
that at his birth the child turned anto a torch and set the palace on
Fire. She told this dream to the soothsayers, and asked them what 1¢
neant. They said 1f must mean that her son would be the means of
bringing sone terrible calamities and disasters upon the fanily. The
nother was terrified, and, to avert these calanities, gave the child
to a slave as soon ai it was born, and ordered hin to destray it. The
Slave pitied the helpless babe, and, not liking to destroy it with his
fun hand, carried it to Mount ida, and left it there in the forests to
ie.

| she bear, roaming through the woods, found the child, and,
experiencing a feeling cf maternal tenderness for it, she took care of
Se, and reared it ae if St had been her onn offspring. The child was
folnd, at last, by sone shepherds uho Lived upon the mountain, and
they adopted st a their own, robbing the brute mather of her’ charge.
‘They named the boy Paris. He’ grew in strength and beauty, and gave
early and extraordinary proofs of courage and energy, az Sf he had
mbibed sone of the qualities of his fierce foster mother with the
iallk she gave hin. he was eo renarkable for athletic beauty and manly
Courage, that he not only easily won the heart of a nymph of Mount
4éa, named Oenone, whom he married, but he also attracted the
attention of the goddesses in the heavens.

‘ne length these goddesses had a dispute which they agreed to refer to
him. The origin of the dispute was this. There was 2 wedding anong
‘them, and one of them, ineitated at not having been Anvited, had
golden apple nade, on’which were engraved the words, "TO BE’GIVEN TO
{WE MOST SEAUTIFUL.” she threw this apple into the assewbly: her
object was to make them quarrel for it. In fact, she was herself the
Boddess of discord, and, independently of her cause of pique in this,
Ease, she loved to’ promote disputes. It is in allusion to this ancient
ale’ that any subject of dispute, brought up unnecessarily anong


Page 28, Instance 0, Class: Text
eee eee oe ee ee ee eee ee ee Stet oe wes
snore beautiful than the others, and this was the dispute which they
agreed to refer to Paris. They accordingly exhibited thenselves before
hhin in the ountains, that he might look at them and decide. They did
ot, however, seen willing, either of thea, to trust to an impartial
Gecision of the question, but each offered’ the Judge 2 bribe to induce
him fo decide in her favor. One prosised him 2 Kingdon, another great
Fane, and the third, Venus, promised him the gost beautiful woman in
‘the world for his wife. He decided in favor of Venus; whether because
She was justly entitled to the decision, ar through the influence oF
the bribe, the story does not say.
ALL this tine Paris remained on the nountain, a simple shepherd and
herdssan, not knowing his relationship to the sonarch who reigned over
the city’ and kingdom on the plain below. King Priam, however, about
this time, in some ganes which he was celebrating, offered, as a
prize to the victor, the finest bull which could be obtained on Mount
{da. on waking exanination, Paris was found to have the Finest bull
and the King, exercising. the despotic power wnich kings in those days
rade no scruple of assuming in respect to helpless peasants, took it
nay. Paris nas very indignant. It happened, however, that a short
tine afterward there was another opportunity to contend for the sane
bull, and Paris, disguising himself as a prince, appeared in the
Lists, conquered every competitor, and bore avay the bull again to his
none in the fastnessez of the sountatn,
In consequence of this his appearance at court, the daughter of Prian,
ose nane was Cassandra, became acquainted with hin, and, inquiring
nto his story, succeeded in ascertaining that he was her brother, the
long-lost child, that had been supposed to be put to death. King Priaw
war convinced by the evidence which she brought forward, and Paris wat
brought hone to his father's house. After becoming established in his
ew position, he resenbered the promise of Venus that he should have
tthe mast beautiful woman in the world for his wife, and he began,
accordingly, to inguire where he could find her.
[Eltustration: PARIS ANO HELEN.)
‘here was in Sparta, one of the cities of Southern Greece, a certain
king Menelaus, who had 2 youthful bride naned Helen, who was faned far
and near for her beauty. Paris cane to the conclusion that she was the
fost lovely wowan in the world, and that he was entitled, in vireue of
Venus's promise, to obtain possession of her, i# he could do so by any
weans whatever. He accordingly made a journey into Greece, visited
Sparta, forwed an acquaintance with Helen, persuaded her to abandon
her husband’ and her duty, and elope with him to Trey
Nenelaus was indignant at this outrage. He called on all Greece to
‘take up arms and join hia in the attempt to recover his bride. They
responded to this demand. They first sent to Prias, denanding’that he
Should restore Helen to her husband. Prise refused to do so, taking
part with his son. The Greeks then raised a fleet and an army, and
Cane to the plains of Troy, encamped before the city, and persevered
for ten long years in besieging it, when at length it was taken and
destroyed
‘These stories relating to the origin of the war, however, marvelous
and entertaining as they are, were not the points which chiefly
Interested the mind of Alexander. The portions of Hoser’s narratives
ich most excited his enthusiasm were those relating to the
Characters OF the heroes who fought, on one side and-on the other, at
the siege, their various adventures, and the delineations of their
notives and principles of conduct, and the enotions and excitenents
‘hey experienced in the various ciecunstances in which they were


Page 29, Instance 0, Class: Text
nd a) thnee mehen
‘ambition, of resentnent, of pride, of rivalry, and all those other
npulses’of the hunan heart which’would excite and control the action
Of impetuous men in the circumstances in which his heross were placed.
ach one of the heroes whose history and adventures he gives,
possessed a well-marked and striking character, and differed in
Eeaperanent and action fran the rest. Achilles was one. fe was Flery,
Ampetuous, and implacable in character, fierce and merciless; and,
‘though perfectly undaunted and fearless, entirely destitute of
feagnaninity. There was a river called the Styx, the waters of which
were said to have the property of making any one invulnerable. The
other of Achilles dipped him into it in his infancy, holding him by
‘the heel. The heel, not having been immersed, was the only part which
ould be wounded. thus he was safe an battle, and wae 2 terrable
Narrior. He, however, quarreled with his conrades and withdrew From
their cause on slight pretexts, and then becane reconciled again,
Anfluenced by equally frivolous reasons
[nltustration: ACHELLES.1
‘Aganennon was the conmander-in-chief of the Greek aray. After a
certain victory, by which sone captives were taken, and were to be
Givided anong the victors, Aganennon was obliged to restore one, 2
noble lady, who had fallen to his share, and he took auay the one that
had been assigned to Achilles to replace her. This incensed Achilles,
and he withdrew for'a long tine fron the contest; and, in consequence
Of his absence, the Trojans gained great and continued victories
against the Greeks. For a long tine nothing could induce Achilles to
‘Ae length, however, though he would not go hincelf, he allowed his
intimate friend, whose nae was Patroclus, to take his arwor and go
{nto battle. Patroclus was at first successful, but was soon killed by
Hector, the brother of Pards. This aroused anger and a spirit of
revenge in the mind of Achilles. He gave up his quarrel with Aganemon
fand returned to the combat, He did not renit his exertions till he had
Slain Hector, and then he expressed his brutal exultation, and
Satisfied his revenge, by dragging the dead body at the wheels of his
Chariot around the walls of the city. He then sold the body to the
(distracted father for a ransom.
4 was such stories as these, which are related in the poews of Homer
vith great beauty and power, that had chiefly interested the mind oF
Alexander, The subjects interested him; the accounts of the
contentions, the rivalries, the exploits of these warriors, the
Gelineations of their character and springs of action, and’ the
narrations of the various incidents and events to which such a war
gave rise, were all calculated to captivate the imagination oF a young
artial hero,
Alexander accordingly resolved that his First landing in Asia should
be at Troy. He left his army under the charge of Parsenio, to cross
From Sestos to Abydos, while he himself set forth in a single golley
to proceed to the southward. There was a port on the Trojan shore
ere the Greeks had been accustomed to disenbark, and he steered hs
Course for it. He had a bull on board his galley which he was going to
offer as a sacrifice to Neptune when half way from shore to shore.
Neptune was the god of the ses. It is true that the Hellespont 4s not
‘the open ocean, but Jt is an arm of the sea, and thus belonged
properly to the dominions which the ancients acsigned to the divinity
bf the waters, Meptune was conceived of by the ancients a= 8 monarch
fiwelling on the seas or upon the coasts, and réding aver the waves
‘seated ina great shell, or sometimes in a chariot, drawn by dolphins


Page 30, Instance 0, Class: Text
(OF s€a-horses. In these excursions fe was attended by 3 train oF
Sea-gods and nymphs, who, half floating, half swinning, followed him
over the billows. Instead oF a scepter Neptune carried a trident.
Enident was a sort of three-pronged harpoon, such as was used in those
days by the fishermen of the Mediterranean. It was fron this
clncunstance, probably, that it was chosen as the badge oF authority
for the god of the sea.

Alexander took the helm, and steered the galley with his own hands
touard the Asiatic shore. Just before he Feached the land, he took his
place upon the prow, and threw 3 javelin at the shore as he approached
Be, a Symbol of the spirit of defiance and hostility with which he
advanced to the frontiers of the eastern world. He was also the first
{to land. After disemarking his conpany, he offered sacrifices to the
fds, and then proceeded to visit the places which had been the scenes
(fF the events which Homer had described

Honer had weitten five hundred years before the tine of Alexander, and
there 1s sone doubt whether the ruins and the remains of cities which
four hero found there were really the scenes of the narratives which
had interested him so deeply. He, however, at any rate, believed then
te be 20, and he wae filled with enthusiasn and pride as he wanderes
fanong thén. He seens to have been most interested in the character of
chilies, and he said that he envied him his happy lot in having such
a friend’ as Patroclus to help hin perform his exploits, and such 2
Post a5 Homer to celebrate then:

‘After completing his visit upon the plain of Troy, Alexander moved
‘toward the northeast with the few men who had accompanied his in his
‘ingle galley. In the mean tine Parseno had crossed safely, with the
fain body of the army, from Sestoz to Abydos. Alexander overtock thes
fon their march, not f2r fron the place ct their landing. To the
northward of this place, on the left of the line of march which
Alexander was taking, was the city of Lanpsacus.

Now 2 large portion of fsia Minor, although for the most part under
‘the dominion of Persia, had been ina great measure settled by Greeks,
land, in previous wars between the two nations, the various cities had
been in possession, sonetines of one power and sosetines of the other.
In these contests the city of Lanpsacus had incurred the high
‘displeasure of the Greeks by rebelling, as they s2id, on one occasion,
Sgeinet then. Alexander determined to destroy it ae he passed. the
Inhabitants were aware of this intention, and sent an enbassador to
‘Alexander to implore his mercy. hen the eHbassader approached,
Alexander, knowing his ercand, uttered a declaration in which he bound
hinself by 2 solenn oath not to grant the request he was about to
fake." have cone,” said the enbassador, "eo implore you to -destroy_
Campsacus." Alexander, pleased with the readiness of the enbassador 10
Biving his language such a sudden turn, and perhaps influenced by his
ath, spared the city.

He was now fairly in Asia. The Persian forces were gathering to attack
hin, but so unexpected and sudden had been his invasion that they were
not prepared to nest him at his arrival, and he advanced without,
Opposition till he reached the banks of the little river Granicus.


Page 31, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander hemmed in by Mount 14a and the Granicus.--The
Granicus.--Prodront .--Alexander stopped at the Granicus.--Counci]
Called, -alexander resolves to advance.--iis motives, --the Macedonian
phalans,--Its organization.--Formidable character of the phalanx. -I2
Arresistible.--oivisions of the phalanx.--Its position in|

battle, Battle of the cranicus.--Defeat of the Persians, --Alexander’s
Prowess.--His imvinent danger.--Results of the battle.--spoils sent to
Greece, Menon overruled. --Aiexander vieite the wounded. Alexander
resumes his march.--The country surrenders.--Incidents. Alexander's
{enerosity.-vOnens.--The eagle on the mast.--Interpretations.--Approach
Of winter. The newly married peraitted to go hone. -A detachwent of
bbridegroons.--Taurus.--Passage through the Sea.--Hardships.--The
Neander.--Gordius.--Story of the Gordian knot.—-Midas.--cordius made
king.--Alexander cuts the knot.--He resunes his march. Alexander's bath
Sn the Cyonus.--His sickness,--Alexander's physician Philip.--Suspicions
of poison. Asia subdued.--The plain of Tssus.

Although Alexander had Landed safely on the Asiatic shore, the way was
not yet fairly open for him to advance into the interior of the
country. He was upon a sort of plain, which was separated from the
fenritory beyond by natural barriers, On the south was the range oF
Jofty land called Mount Ida. Fron the northeastenn slopes of this
wountain there descended 2 strean which Flowed north into the sea,
‘thus henming Alexander's aray in. He must either scale the mountain or
crass the river before he could penetrate into the interior.

He thought © would be easiest to cross the river. It ds very
difficult to get 2 lange body of horsesen and oF heavy-araed soldiers,
with all their attendants and baggage, over high elevations of land.
‘his was the reason why the aray turned to the northward after landing
upon the Asiatic shore. Alexander thought the Granicus less of an
obstacle than Mount 12, It was not 2 large strean, and was easily
Fordable.

[nitustration: THE GRanzcus.)

4 was the custom in those days, as it 4s now when armies are
imarching, to send forward enall bodies of men in every direction to
explore the roads, renove obstacles, and discover sources of danger.
‘These men are called, in modern tines, scouts ; in Alexander's day,
and in'the Greek language, they were Called _prodroni_, which means
forerunners. it 4s the duty of these pioneers to send messengers back
continually to the main body of the ary, informing the officers oF
every thing important which cones under their abservation.

In this case, when the aray was gradually drawing near to the river,
‘the -prodroni, "cane in with the news that they had been to the river,
and Found the whole opposite shore, at the place of crossing, lined
‘th Persian troops, collected there to dispute the passage. The army
Continued their advance, while Alexander called the leading generals
arcund hin, to consider what was to be done.

Parmenio recomended that they should not attempt to pass the river
mediately. The Persian aray consisted chiefly of cavalry. Now
Cavalry, though very terrible az an enemy on the field of battle by
(day, are peculiarly exposed and defenseless in an encanpnent by night.
‘The’ horses are scattered, feeding or at rest. The aras of the men are
Light, and they are not accustomed to Fighting on foot). and ons
Sudden incursion of an enemy at midnight into their camp, their horses
and their horsemanship are alike useless, and they fall an easy prey
to resolute invaders. Parwenio thought, therefore, that the Persians
would not dare to remain and encanp many days in the vicinity of
‘Alexander's army, and that, accordingly, if they waited a little, the
feneny would retreat, and Alexander could then cross the river without


Page 32, Instance 0, Class: Text
But Alexander was unwilling to adopt any such policy. He felt
confident that his army was courageous and strong enough to march on,
directly through the river, ascend the bank upon the other side, and
force their way through all the opposition which the Persians could
wake. He knew, too, that if this were done it would create a strong
Sensation throughout the whole country, iapressing every one with 3
sense of the energy and power of the amy which he was conducting, and
would thus tend to intimidate the eneny, and facilitate all future
Operations. Sut this was not all; he hed a more powerful aotive still
for wishing to march right on, across the river, and force his way
‘through the vast bodies of cavalry on the opposite shore, and this was
‘the pleasure of performing the exploit.

Accondingly, as the aray advanced to the banks, they manewered to
form in order of battle, and prepared to continue their march 25 if
‘there were no obstacle to oppose then. The general order of battle of
tthe Macedonian army was this. There was 2 certain body of troops,
arsed and organized ina peculiar manner, called the Phalanx. This
body was placed in the canter. The sen conposing it were very heavily
arsed. They had shields upon the left arn, and they carried spears
Siteen feet long, and pointed with iron,’ which they held firey in
their two hands, uith the points projecting far before then. The men
were arranged in Lines, one behind the other, and all facing the
fneny-sixteen lines, and a thousand in each’ Line, or, a5 it is,
expressed in military phrase, a thousand in rank and sixteen in File,
So that the phalanx contained Sixteen thousand men.

The spears were so long that when the men stood in close onder, the
rear ranks being brought up near to those before then, the points of
‘the spears of eight on ten of the ranks projected in front, forsing @
bristling wall of points of steel, each one of which was held in its
lace by the strong ares of an atilletic and well-trained soldier. This
Nall no’ force which could in those days be brought against it could
penetrate. Men, horses, elephants, every thing that attenpted to rush
lipan it, rushed only £0 their own destruction. Every spear, feeling
the impulse of the vigorous aras which held 4, seemed to be alive,
fand darted into its enemy, when an eneay was a¢ hand, as af St felt
Htself the flerce hostility which directed it. If the eneay remained
{at a distance, and threw javelins or darts at the phalanx, they fell
harmless, stopped by the shields which the soldiers wore upon the Left
fm, and’ which were held in such 3 manner ae to form 2 systen of
Scales, which covered and protected the whole mass, and made the men
almost invulnerable. The phalanx was thus, when only defending steel
and in a state of rest, an army anda fortification all in one, and it
Nas almost inpregnable, gut when it took an aggressive form, pit
[teelf in sotion, and advanced to an attack, if was infinitely sore
Formidable. It becane then a terrible monster, covered with scales of
brass, from beneath which there projected forward ten thousand 2iving,
darting points of iron. It advanced deliverstely and calmly, but with
3 prodigious sonentun and farce. There was nothing human in'sts
appearance at all. It vas a huge aninal, ferocious, dogged, stubborn,
nsensibie to pain, knowing no fear, and bearing down with resistiess
and merciless destruction upon every thing that cane in its way. The
phalanx was the center and soul of Alexander's aay. Powerful. and
Anpregrable as it was, however, in ancient days, it would be helpless
and defenseless on a modern pattle-field, Solid balls of iron, flying
Through the air with velocity which #akes then invisible, would tear
hein way through the pikes and the shields, and the Godies oF the men
wo bore them, without even feeling the obstruction.

‘ihe phalanx was subdivided into brigades, regiments, and battalions,


Page 33, Instance 0, Class: Text
vas stationed in the center of the army on the field, and on the two
Sldes of it were bodies of cavalry and foot soldiers, more Lightly
ansed than the soldiers of the phalanx, who could accordingly move
With more alertness and Speed, and cary their action readily wherever
4t might be called for. Those troops on the sides were called the
‘ings, Alexander hinseif was accustoned £0 command one wing and
Parmenio the other, while the phalanx crept along slowly but tereibly
between,

‘ihe army, thus arranged and organized, advanced to the river. It was a
broad and shallow stream, The Persians had sssenbled in vast nuabers
fon the opposite shore, sane historians say there were ane hundred
‘thousand men, others say two hundred thousand, and others six hundred
‘thousand. However this may be, there is no doubt their nusbers were
Vastly superior to those of Alexander's army, which 4¢ will. be
recollected was less than forty thousand. There was a narrow plain on
‘the opposite side of the river, next to the shore, and a range of
hiLis Beyond. The Persian cavalry covered the plain, and were ready to
dash upon the Macedonian troops the moent they should energe from the
water and attempt to ascend the bank.

‘he army, led by Alexander, descended into the strean, and moved on
‘through the water. They encountered the onset of theit enesies on the
opposite shore. A terrible and a protracted struggle ensued, but the
coolness, courage, and strength of Alexander's aray carried the day,
‘he Persians were’ driven back, the Greeks effected their landing,
reorganized and forsed on the shore, and the Persians, Finding that
all was lost, fled in all directions.

Alexander hinself took a conspicuous and a very active part in the
contest. He was easily recognized on the Field of battle by his dress,
Snd by a white plune which he wore in his helmet. He exposed hinsel?
to the most imminent danger. At one tine, when desperately engaged
with a troop oF horse, which had galloped down upon hin, a Persian
horseman sined a blow’ at nis head with a sword. Alexander saved his
head from the blow, but st took off his plone and a part of his
helnet. Alexander immediately thrust his antagonist through the body.
Ae the ‘sane monent, another horseman, on another side, had his sword
raised, and would have killed Alexander before he could have turned to
defend hinself, had no help intervened; but just at this instant 2
‘third conbatant, one of Alexander's friends, seeing the danger,
brought down so’ terrible a blow upon the shoulder ef this second
assailant as to Separate his arm from his body.

Such are the stories that are told. They aay have been literally and
fully true, of they may have been exaggerations of circumstances
Soneuhat resenbling them which really occurred, or they may have been
Fictitious altogether. crest generals, like other great men, have
often the credit of many exploits which they never perfora. Tt is the
Special business of posts and historians to magnify and eabellish the
actions of the great, and this art was understood as well in ancient
days as it is now

Me must renenber, too, in reading the accounts of these transactions,
that it is only the Greek cide of the story that we hear. The Persian
narratives have not cone down to us. At any rate, the Persian army was
defeated, and that, £00, without the assistance of the phalanx. The
horsenen’and the Light troops were alone engaged. The phalanx could
not be formed, nor could it act in such a position. The men, on
fnerging from the water, had to clin up the banks, and rush on to the
attack of an eneay consisting of squadrons of horse ready to dash at
fence upon thes.

‘he Persian army was defeated and driven aay. Alexander did nat
pursue then. He felt that he had struck a very heavy blow. The news of


Page 34, Instance 0, Class: Text
this defeat of the Persians would go with the speed of the wind all
over Asia Minor, and operate most powerfully in his favor. He sent
hose to Greece an account of the victory, and with the account he
Forwarded three hundred suits of arson, taken fron the Persian
horsenen killed on the field. These sults of armor were to be hung up
dn the Parthenon, 2 great temple at Athens; the most conspicuous
Position for then, perhaps, uhich al Europe could afford.

‘The name of the Persian general who commanded at the battle of the
Granicus was Memon. He had been opposed to the plan of hazarding a
battle. Alexander had cone to Asia with no provisions and no money. He
had relied on being able to sustain his army by his victories. Memnon,
therefore, strongly unged that the Persians should retrest slowly,
carrying off all the valuable property, and destroying all that could
hot be Fenoved, taking especial care to leave no provisions behing
Then. In this way he thought that the aray of Alexander would be
reduced by privation and want, and would, in the end, fall an easy
Prey. His opinion was, however, overruled by the views of the other
Commanders, and the battle of the Granicus was the consequence.
Alexander encanped to refresh his army and to take care of the
wounded, He went to see the wounded wan one by one, inquired into the
Cireusstances of each case, and Listened to each one who was able to
alk, while he gove an account of his adventures in the battle, and
‘the manner in which he received his wound, To be able thus to tell
their story to their general, and to see him Listening to it with
interest and pleasure, filled their hearts with pride and joy} and
‘the whole army was inspired with the highest spirit of enthuelaem,. and
with eager desires to have another opportunity occur in which they
Could encounter danger and death in the service of such a leader. Tt
Sein such traite ae these that the true greatness of the soul oF
‘Alexander shines. It must be renenoered that all this tine he was but
Little more than twenty-one. He was but Just oF age.

Fram his encaspment on the Granicus Alexander turned to the southward,
land maved along on the eastern shores of the Agean Sea. The country
generally surrendered to hin without opposition. in fact, it wae
hardly Persian territory at all. The inhabitants were mainly of Greek
extraction, and had been sonetines under Greek and sonetines under
Persian rule. The conquest of the country resulted simply in 2 change
of the executive officer of each province. Alexander took special
pains to lead the people to feel that they had nothing to fear from
hin. He would not sllow the soldiers to do any injury. he protected
all private property. ie took possession only of the citadels, and of
‘Such governmental property as he found there, and he continued the
Sane taxes, the sane laws, and the sane tribunals as had existed
before his invasion. The cities and the provinces accordingly
surrendered to him as he passed slong, and ina very short tine all
‘the western part of Asia Minor submitted peacefully to his sway.

‘he narrative of this progress, as given by the ancient historians, is
diversified by 2 great variety of adventures and incidents, which give
fgreat interest to the story, and strikingly illustrate the’ character
GF Alexander and the spirit of the tines. In sone places there would
be a contest between the Greek and the Persian parties before
Alexander's arrival. At Ephesus the animosity had been so great that a
sort of civil war had broken out. The Greek party had gained the
ascendency, and were threatening a general massacre of the Persian
Inhabitants. Alexander promptly interposed to protect thes, though
‘they were his enemies. The intelligence of this act of forbearance and
generosity spread all over the land, and added greatly to the
influence of Alexander's nane, and to the estination in which he was
held.

‘It was the custom in those days for the mass of the common soldiers to


Page 35, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘tokeane which thay abeerved in the flicht on the aetione of birae. and
‘tokens which they observed in the flight or the actions of birds, and
other sinilar appearances. In one case, the fleet, which had come
long the sea, accompanying the march of the army’on land, was pent up
4 a harbor by a stronger Persian Fleet outside. One of the vessels of
‘the Macedonian fleet was aground, an eagle Lighted upon the mast, and
Stood perched there for a long tine, looking toward the sea. Parmenio
Said that, as the eagle looked toward the sea, it indicated that
victory 1ay in that quarter, and he recomended that they should arm
‘hein ships and push boldly’ out to attack the Persians. Sut Alexander
naintained that, as the eagle alighted on a ship which was aground, it
Indicated that they were to look for their success on the share. The
lonens could thus almost always be interpreted any way, and sagacious
generals only sought in then the seans of confirming the courage and
Confidence of their soldiers, in respect to the plans unich they
‘Sdopted under the influence of other considerations altogether.
Alexander knew very well that he was not a sailor, and had no desire
to enbark in contests from which, Rowever they might end, he would
hiaself personaily obtain no glory.
nen the winter cane on, Alexander and his army were about three or
four hundred miles from'hone; and, a5 he did nat intend to advance
fmach farther untSl the spring should open, he annaunced to the army
‘that all those persons, both officers and’ soldiers who had been
married within the year, might go hose if they chose, and spend the
Minter with their brides, and return to the aray in the spring. No
oube this was an adnirable stroke of policy; for, as the nunber could
hot be large, their absence could nat aaterdally weaken his force, and
they would, OF course, Fil all Greece with tales of Alexander's
energy and’ courage, and of the nobleness and generosity oF his
Character. Te was the nost effectual way possible of disseminating
Ehrough Europe the most brilliant accounts of what he had already
done.
aesides, 4t must have avakened 2 nex bond of sympathy and
Fellow feeling between hincelf and his soldiers, and grestly increased
‘the attachaent to him felt both by those who went and those who
remained. And though Alexander must have been avare of all these
aavantages of the act, Still no one could have thought of or adopted
Such 2 plan unless he’ waz accustomed to cansider and regard, in his,
dealings with others, the feelings and affections of the heart, and
to cherish a wara sympathy for then. The bridegroom soldiers, full of
eultation and pleasure, set forth on their return to Greece, in 2
Getachnent under the charge of three generals, themselves bridegroons
Alexander, however, had no idea of remaining idle during the winter.
He marched on From’ province to province, and from city to city,
necting with every variety of adventures. He went First along the
Southern coast, until at length he cane to a place where a mountain
Chain, called Taurus, cones doun to the sea-coast, where St tersinates
abruptly in cliffs and precipices, leaving only 2'narrow beach between
‘them and the water below. This beach was sonetines covered and
Sonetines bare. It is true, there is very little tide in the
Nediterranean, but the level of the water along the shores is altered
considerably by the long-continued pressure exerted in one direction
for anather by winds and storms. The water was -up_ when Alexander
Peaches this pase} still he determined to march his army through 4,
‘here was another way, back anong the mountains, but Alexander seemed
disposed to gratify the love of adventure which his army felt, by
Sntroducing then £0. novel scene of danger. They accordingly’ defiled
along under these cliffs, marching, as they say, sonetines up to the
Naist in water, the swell rolling in upon them all the tine fron the
ae tiae.


Page 36, Instance 0, Class: Text
Having at length succeeded in passing safely round this frowning
buttress of the mountains, Alexander turned northward, and advanced
into the very heart of asia Minor. In doing this he had to pase -over_
‘the range which he had cone "round before; and, as it was winter, Nz
anay were, for a tine, enveloped in snows and storms anong the wild
and frightful defies. They had here, in addition to the dangers and
hardships of the way and of the season, ta encounter the hostility of
their foes, a5 the tribes who inhabited these sountains assenbled to
dispute the passage. Alexander was victorious, and reached 3 valley
‘through which there Flows a iver which has handed down its name to
‘the English Language and literature. This river was the Meander. Its
beautiful windings through verdant and fertile valleys were <0
Penouned, that every stream which initates its example is said to
“heander’ tothe present day

During all this time Paraenio had remained in the western part of Asia
Minor with a considerable body of the army. As the spring approached,
Alexander sent him orders to go to Gordiut, whither he was himself
proceeding, and meet him there. He also directed that the detachnent
Nich had gone hone should, on recrossing the Hellespont, on their
return, proceed eastward to Gordiun, thus making that city the general
Pendenvous for the conmencesent of his next campaign

one reason why Alexander desired to go to Gordium was that he wished
to untie the famous Gordian knot. The story of the Gordian knot was
this, Gordius wae 2 sort of mountain farmer. One day he was plowing,
land an eagle cane doun and alighted upon his yoke, and remained there
Until he Rad Finished his plowing. This was an omen, but what was the
Signification of if? Gordius did not know, and he accordingly went £0
a neighboring town in ender to consult the prophets and soothsayers:
On'his way he met 2 dansel, who, like Rebecca in the days of Abraham,
was going forth to draw water. ordius fell into conversation with
her, and related to her the occurrence which had interested him so
Strongly. The maiden advised him to go back and offer a sacrifice to
Supiter, Finally, she consented to go back with him and aid him. The
affair ended in her becoming his wife, and they Lived together in
peace for many years upon their fara.

‘Tey had a son named Midas. The father and mother were accustoned to
go cut sonetines in their cart or uagon, drawn by the oxen, Midas
driving. One day they were going into the ton in this way, at a tine
wen {€ happened that there waz.an aesenbly convened, which was in 3
State of great perplexity on account of the civil dissensions and
Contests hich prevailed in the country. They had Just inquired of an
oracle what they should do, The oracle seid that "a cart would bring
then 9 King, who would terminate their eternal broils.” Just then
Nidas'cane up, driving the cart in which his father and mother were
Seated. The atsenbly thought st once that this must be the cart meant
by the oracle, and they sade Gordius king by acclamation, They took
‘the cart and the yoke to preserve as sacred relics, consecrating then
to Jupiter; and Gordius tied the yoke to the pole of the cart by 2
‘thong’ of Leather, making a knot so close and complicated that nobody
could untie it again. It was called the Gordian knot. The oracle
Sftervard said that whoever should untie this knot. should become
fonarch of all Asia. Thus far, nobody had succeeded.

Alexander felt a grest desire to see this knot and try what he coulé
fo. He went, accordingly, into the tenple where the sacred cart had
been deposited, and, after looking at the knot, and satisfying hinself
‘that the task of untying 1t was hopeless, he cut it to pieces with his
sword, How far the clrcusstances of this whole story are true, and how
far Fictitious, no one can tell; the story itself, however, as thus
related, has cone doun from generation to generation, in every country
‘f Europe, for two thousand years, and any extrication of one's self
Fron 2 difficulty by violent means has been called cutting the Gordian


Page 37, Instance 0, Class: Text
([Tilustration: THE BATHING IN THE RIVER CYNDUS.]
‘At length the whole ary was assembled, and the king recoanenced

his progress. He went on successfully for sone weeks, moving in 2
Southeasterly direction, and bringing the whole country under his
dominion, until, at length, when he reached Tarsus, an event occurred
Mich nearly tefainated his career. There were sone circumstances
eich caused him to press forward uith the utnost effort in
Spproaching Tarsus, and, a© the day was warm, he got very mich
fovercone with heat’ and fatigue. In this state, he went and plunged
Suddenly into the River Cygnus to bathe

Now the Cydnus is 2 snali stream, Flowing by Tarsus, and it cones down
from Mount Taurus at a short distance back from the’ city. Such streaas
fare always very cold. Alexander was imediately seized with a very
Wolent chill, and was taken out of the water shivering excessively,
land, at length, fainted away. They thought he was dying. They bore hin
to his tent, and, 25 tidings of their leader's danger spread through
‘the camp, the whole arty, officers and soldiers, were thrown into the
greatest constemnation and grief.

‘A violent and protracted fever cane on. In the course of St, an
incident occurred which strikingly ‘llustrates the boldness’ and
originality of Alexander's character. The nase of his physician was
Pnilip. Philip had been preparing particular medicine for hin,
Mich, it seons, required sone days to make ready. JUSE before it was
presented, Alexander received a letter from Parnenio, informing him
hat he had good reason to believe that Philip had been Oribed by the
Persians to murder hin, during his sickness, by adeinistering poison
Ain the nane of medicine. He wrote, he said, to put him on his guard
‘against any medicine which Philip might offer him

Alexander put the letter under his pillow, and communicated its
contents to no one, At length, when’ the medicine was ready, Philip
brought it in. Alexander took’ the cup containing it with one hand, and
with the other he handed Philip the communication which he had
received from Parmenio, saying, "Read that letter.” As soon as Philip
had finished reading it, and was ready to look up, Alexander drank off
‘the draught in full, and Laid down the cup with an air of perfect
confidence that he had nothing 0 fear.

Sone persons think that Alexander watched the countenance of his
physician while he was reading the letter, and that he was led to take
{the medicine by his confidence in his power to detensine the guilt or
tthe Innocence of a person this accused by his Looks. Others suppose
that the act was an expression of his amplicit faith in the ntegrity
and fidelity of his servant, and that he intended it as testinony,
Biven in a very pointed and’ decisive, and, at the sane tine, delicate
amen, that he was not suspicious of his’ friends, or easily led to
Gistruse their faithfulness. Philip was, at any rate, extremely
gratified at the procedure, and Alexander recovered.

Alexander had now traversed the whole extent of Asia Minor, and had
Subdued the entire country to his say. He was now advancing to
another district, that of Sycia and Palestine, which Lies on the
astern shores of the Mediterranean Sea. To enter this new territory,
he had to pass over a narrow plain which lay between the mountains and
the sea, ata place called Zstus. Here he was set by the aain body of
‘the Persian army, and the great battle of Issus was fought. This,
battle will be the subject of the next chapter.


Page 38, Instance 0, Class: Text
mercenaries.-—Counsel of Charidesus.--Derius's displeasure at
Charidemis.--He condenns him to death.--hagnificence of Darius'=
Snay.--Worship of the sun.--The Kinsten.--The inmortals.--Appearance
(f Darius.--Costly apparel of Darius.--his family.--Darius advances,
to sect Alexander.--Hap of the plain of Tssus.--Hount Taurus.--Route
bf Darius.--Situation of Iesus.--The armies pacz each
fther.--fecoonoitering parties. --A camp at night.--The night

before the battle.--Subline and solemn scenes.--Defeat of the
Persians.--Flight of Darius.--The mother and wife of Darius

taken captive.--Their grief. —-Alevander's kindness to the
Captives.-Hephaction.--Alexander's interview with the queens.--A
ristake. -Boldness of Alexander's policy.--tunber of Persians
Slain.--Capture of immense treasure, --Negotiatons.--Alexander'=
ressage to Darius.--Grecian captives. The Theban envoys.--Alexander's
Victorious progress.

‘hus far Alexander had had only the Meutenants and generals of the
Persian wonarch to contend with. Dardus had at first looked upon the
Anvasion of his vast dominions by such a mere boy, as he called hin,
and by so snall an army, with contempt. He sent word to his generals
Jn asia Minor to seize the young fool, and Send him to Persia bound
hand and foot. fy the tine, however, hat Alexander had poseessed
hiaself of ali ASia Minor, ‘Darius began to find that, though young, he
as no fool, and that it was not likely to be very easy to seize hin.
Accordingly, Darius collected an immense army himself, and advanced to
treet the Hacedondane in person. Nothing cauld exceed the pomp and
magnificence of his preparations. There were inense numbers of
‘Eroops, and they were of all nations, There were even a great many
Greeks anong his forces, many of them enlisted From the Grecks oF Asia
Minor. There were sone from Greece itself--mercenaries, a= they were
called; that is, soldiers who fought for pay, and who were willing to
enter into any service which would pay them best.

‘There were even some Greek officers and counselors in the family and
court of Darius. One of thea, naned Charidemus, offended the king very
mich by the free opinion which he expressed of the uselessness of all
his ponp and parade in preparing for an encounter with such an eneny
a5 Alevander. “Perhaps,” seid Charidemis, "you may not be pleased with
fy speaking to you plainly, but if T do not do it now, it will be too
ate hereafter. This great parade and pomp, and this cnoraous
wmltitude of men, might be Formidable to your Asiatic neighbors; but
uch sort of preparation will be of 1ittle avail against Alexander and
his Greeks. Your argy is resplendent with purple and gold. No one wo
had not seen it could conceive of its sagnificence; but it will not be
Of any avail against the terrible energy af the Greeks, Their minds
fare bent on something very different fren idle show. They are intent
fon securing the substantial excellence of their weapons, and on
Acquiring the discipline and the hardihood essential for the most
efficient use of then. They will despise all your parade of purple and
fold. They will not even value it as plunder. They glory in their
ability to dispense with all the luxuries and conveniences of Life.
ney Live upon the coarsest food. at night they sleep upon the bare
ground. By day they are always on the sarch. They brave hunger, cold,
and every species of exposure with pride and pleasure, having the
greatest contenpt for any thing Like softness and effeninacy of


Page 38, Instance 1, Class: Text
varius's opinion of Alexander.--He prepares to meet hin.--creek
nercenaries.--Counsel of Charidemus.--Dardus's displeasure at
Charidenus.--ie condemns hin to death.--Magnificence of Darius's
aray.--Worship of the sun.--The Kinsnon.--the Inngrtals.--Appearance
of Darius.--Costly apparel of Darius.--His family.--Darius advances
to meet Alexander.--Map of the plain of Issus.--Hount Taurus.-Route
of Darius. -Situation of Istus.--The armies pase each
other.--Reconnoitering parties.--A camp at night.--The night

before the battle,--Subline and solemn scenes. -Oefeat of the
Persians.--Flight of Darius.--The mother and wife of Darius

taken captive.s-Their grief.--Alexander's kindness to the

Captives. --Hephastion.--Alexander's interview with the queens.--A
nistake. -Boldness of Alexander's policy.--Nunber of Persians
flain.--Capture of imence treasure.--Negotiations.--Alexander's
nessage to Darius.--Grecian captives.--The Theban envays.--Alexander's
victorious progress.


Page 39, Instance 0, Class: Text
chenacter, All this pomp mul pegeetry, Mite inet riciqnt weepoms, wed
inefficient men to wield then, Will be of no avail against their
Anvincible courage and energy; and the best disposition that you can
take of all your gold, and silver, and other treasures, is to send it
away and procure good soldiers with it, if indeed gold and silver will
procure then.”
‘he Greeks were habituated to energetic speaking as well as acting,
but Charidemus did not sufficiently consider that the Persians were
not accustoned to hear such plain Language as this. Darius was very
mich displeased. In his anger he condeaned him to death. "Very well,”
Said Charidemus, "I can die. But ny avenger is at hand. My advice 1s,
goed, and Alexander will soon punish you for not regarding it."
Very gorgeous descriptions are given of the poap and magnificence of
tthe army of Darius, az he comenced his march fran the euphrates to
‘the Mediterranean. The Persians worship the sun and fire. Over the
king's tent there was. an image of the sun in crystal, and supported in
Such a manner as to be in the view of the whole army. They had also
Sliver altars, on which they kept constantly Burning what they called
‘the sacred fire. These altars were borne by persons appointed for the
purpose, who were clothed in magnificent costumes. Then case 2 long
Procession of priests and magi, who were dressed also in very splendid
Fobes. They performed the Services of public worship. Following them
ane @ chariot consecrated to the sun. It was drawn by white horses,
and was followed by a single white horse of large size and noble fora,
Which was a sacred aninal, being called the horse of the sun. The
(queries, that iz, the attendants who had charge of this horse, were
also all dressed in white, and each carried a golden rod in his hand.
There were bodies of troops distinguished from the rest, and occupying
positions of high honor, but. these were selected and advanced above
{the others, not on account of their courage, or strength, oF superior
martial efficiency, but fron considerations connected with their
birth, and rank, and other aristocratic qualities. There wae one body
called the Kinsmen, who were the relatives of the king, or, at least,
So considered, though, as there were fifteen thousand of then, it
would seam that the relationship could not have been, in all cases,
Very near. They were dressed with great magnificence, and prided
themselves on their rank, their wealth, and the splendor of these
arson. There was also a corps called the Imortals. They were ten
thousand in aurber, They wore a dress of gold tissue, wnich glittered
with spangles and precious stones.
‘These bodies of sen, thus dressed, made an appearance more Like that
of a civic procession, on an occasion of ceremony and rejoicing, than
{ike the march of an army. The appearance of the king in his chariot
was still sore Like an exhibition of pomp and parade. The carriage was
very large, elaborately carved and gilded, and ornanented with statues
and sculptures. Here the king sat on a very elevated seat, in sight of
S11. fie was clothed in'a vest of purple, striped with silver, and over
his vest he wore a robe glittering with'gold and precious stones.
Around his waist was 2 golden girdle, from which was suspended his
Cineter--a species of sword--the scabbard of which wae resplendent
With gons. He wore a tiara upon his head of very costly and elegant
Norknanship, and enriched, like the rest of his dress, with brilliant
Ornaments. The guards who’ preceded and followed him had pikes of
Silver, mounted and tipped with gold.
It is very extraondinary that King Darius took his wife and all his
Family with him, and 2 large portion of his treasures, on this
expedition againet Alexander. His mather, whose nane was Sysiganbis,
ar in his family, and she and his wife came, each in her oon chardot,
mediately after’ the king. Then there were fifteen carriages filled
with the children and their attendants, and three or four hundred


Page 40, Instance 0, Class: Text
Ladies of the court, all dressed Like queens. After the family there
cane a train of aany hundreds of casels and mules, carrying the royal
Be was in this style that Oarius set out upon his expedition, and he
vanced by 2 slow progress toward the westward, until at length he
approached the shores of the Mediterranean Sea."He left his treasures
nthe city of Oanascus, where they were deposited under the charge
of a sufficient force to protect thes, as he supposed. He then
Savanced to meet Alexander, going hinself from Syria toward Asia Minor
Just at the tine that Alexander was coning from Asia Minor into Syria.
[nltustratéon: PLAIN OF 25SUS.]

It will be observed by Looking upon the map, that the chain of
tountaine called Mount Taurus extends donn near to the coast, at the
northeastern corner of the Hadsterranean. Anong these mountains there
are various tracts of open country, through which an aray may march to
fnd fro, between Syria and Asia Winor, Now At happened that Oardus, in
going toward the west, took a more inland route than Alexander, uho,
fn coning eastward, Kept nearer to the sea. Alexander did not know
hat Darius was so’ near} and as for Darius, he was confident that
Alexander was retreating before hin; for, 35 the Macedonian army was
go anall, and his own forces constituted such an innumerable host, the
dea that Alexander would remain to brave a battle was, in his
opinion, entirely out of the question. He had, therefore, no doubt
that Alocander was retreating. It is, of course, always difficult for
‘two armies, fifty miles apart, to obtain correct ideas of each other's
ovenents. All the ordinary intercommunications of the country are of
Course stopped, and each general has his scouts out, with orders to
intercept al travelers, and to interrupt the conunication oF
intelligence by every means in their power

In consequence of these and other circumstances of @ sinilar nature,
$¢ happened that Alexander and Darius actually passed each other,
without either of then Being aware of it. Alexander advanced into
Syria by the plains of Tssus, marked _a_ upon the map, and a narrow
pass beyond, called the Gates of syria, while Darius went farther to
fhe north, and arrived at Issus after Alexander had left it. Here each
anay learned to their astonishment that their eneay was in their rear.
‘Alexander could not credit this report when he First heard it. He
ispatched a galley with thirty oars along the shore, up the Gulf of
{ssus, to ascertain the truth. The galley soon cane back and reported
‘that, beyond the Gates of Syria, they saw the whole country, which was
nearly level land, though gently rising fron the sea, covered with the
Vast encanpnents of the Persian army.

‘he king then called his generals and counselors together, informed
‘them of the facts, and made known to then his determination to return
Snmediavely thraugh the Gates of syria and attack the Persian army.
‘he officers received the intelligence with enthusiastic expressions
of joy

4 was now near the evening. Alexander sent forward a strong
recommoitering party, ordering then to proceed cautiously, to ascend
feminences and look far before them, to guard carefully against
Surprise, and to send back word inmediately 4f they cane upon any
traces of the enemy. At the present day the operations of such a
reconmoitering party are very much aided by the use of spy-glasses,
Nich are nade now with great care expressly for military purposes.
The instrument, however, was not known in Alexander's day.

nen the evening cane on, Alexander followed the reconnoitering party
with the main body of the army. At midnight they reached the defile
lien they were secure in the possession of it, they halted. Strong


Page 41, Instance 0, Class: Text
eee oe eee eee
‘any possible surprise. Alexander hinself ascended one of the
fninences, from xnence he could Look down upon the great plain beyond,
Wich was’ dimly illuminated in every part by the ssouldering fires of
the Persian encanpnent. An encanpaent at night is a spectacle which is
always grand, and often subline. Z¢ must have appeared subline to
‘Alexander in’the highest degree, on this occasion. To stand stealthily
fanong these dark and somber mountains, with the defiles and passes
below filled with the colunns of his saall but undaunted army, and £0
‘ook onward, a few miles beyond, and see the countless fires of the
‘vast hosts which had got between hin and all hope of retreat to his,
native land; to feel, © he mist have done, that his fate, and that of
11 who were with him, depended upon the events of the day that was
Soon to daun--to see and feel these things must have made this night
fone of the mast exciting and solean scenes in the congueror's life. He
had 2 soul to enjoy its excitenent and cublinity. He glorsed An it)
and, a© 4f he wished £0 add to the solemnity of the scene, he caused
fan altar to be erected, and offered a sacrifice, by torch-light, to
the deities on whose aid his soldiers imagined themselves Host
‘dependent for success on the marron, OF course a place was selected
ere the lights of the torches would not attract the attention of the
‘enemy, and sentinels were stationed at every advantageous point £0
watch the Persian camp for the slightest indications of movenent or
alarm

In the morning, at break of day, Alexander comenced his march down to
the plain. in the evening, at sunset, all the valleys and defiles
fanong the sountains around the plain'of Issus were thronged with vast
asses of the Persian aray, broken, disordered, and in confusion, al
Pressing forward to escape fron the victorious Macedonians. They
Erowded all the rosds, they choked up the mountain passes, they
‘eranpled upoa one another, they fell, exhausted with fatigue and
ental agitation. Darius was atong then, though his flight had been so
Sudden that he had left his mother, and his wife, and all his family
behind. He pressed on in his chariot as far as the road allowed his,
chariot to go, and then, leaving every thing behind, he mounted 3
horse and rade on for his 13fe.

Alexander and his army soon abandoned the pursuit, and returned to
‘take possession of the Persian camp. The tents of King Darius and his
household were inconceivably splendid, and were filled with gold and
Silver vessels, caskets, vases, boxes of perfunes, and every.
imaginable article of luxury and show. The mother and wife of Oarius
bewailed their hard fate with cries and tears, and continued all the
evening in an agony of consternation and despair.

Alexander, hearing of this, sent Leonnatus, his former teacher, 2 man
fof years and gravity, to quiet their fears’ and confort then, 0 far as
Se wae porsible to comfort then. Jn addition to their om captivity,
‘they supposed that Darius was killed, and the sother was sourning
bitterly for her son, and the wife for her husband. Leonratus,
attended by sone soldiers, advanced toward the tent where these
fourners were dueling. The attendants at the door ran in and informed
‘then that’ a body of creeks were coming. This threw then into the
greatest consternation. They anticipated violence and death, and threw
henselves upon the ground in agony. Leonnatus waited sone tine at the
door for the attendants to return. At length he entered the tent. This
renewed the terrors of the wouen. They began to entrest him to spare
their Lives, at least until there should be tine for them to see the
remains of the son and husband uhom they aourned, and to pay the last
sad tribute to his nenory.

Leonnatus soon relieved their fears. He told them that he was charged
by Alexander to say to them that Darius was alive, having made his
escape in safety. As to themselves, Alexander assured thes, he said,


Page 41, Instance 1, Class: Text
watches were stationed on all the surrounding heights to guard against
any possible surprise. Alexander hiasel? ascended one of the
fninences, from xnence he could Look down upon the great plain beyond,
Wich was’ dimly illuminated in every part by the ssouldering fires of
the Persian encanpnent. An encanpaent at night is a spectacle which is
always grand, and often subline. Z¢ must have appeared subline to
‘Alexander in’the highest degree, on this occasion. To stand stealthily
fanong these dark and somber mountains, with the defiles and passes
below filled with the colunns of his saall but undaunted army, and £0
‘ook onward, a few miles beyond, and see the countless fires of the
‘vast hosts which had got between hin and all hope of retreat to his,
native land; to feel, © he mist have done, that his fate, and that of
11 who were with him, depended upon the events of the day that was
Soon to daun--to see and feel these things must have made this night
fone of the mast exciting and solean scenes in the congueror's life. He
had 2 soul to enjoy its excitenent and cublinity. He glorsed An it)
and, a© 4f he wished £0 add to the solemnity of the scene, he caused
fan altar to be erected, and offered a sacrifice, by torch-light, to
the deities on whose aid his soldiers imagined themselves Host
‘dependent for success on the marron, OF course a place was selected
ere the lights of the torches would not attract the attention of the
‘enemy, and sentinels were stationed at every advantageous point £0
watch the Persian camp for the slightest indications of movenent or
alarm


Page 42, Instance 0, Class: Text
Jame te bee etme byt nm phamue wae te hee wade dm thin cepsid oe
lives to be protected, but no change was to be made in their condition
‘or mode of Life; they’ should continue to be treated Like queens. He
‘34ded, moreover, that Alexander wished hin to say that he felt no
aninosity or il will whatever against Darius. He was but technically
his eneny, being only engaged in a generous and honorable contest with
hin for the espire of Asia. Saying these things, Leonnatus raised the
Gisconsolate ladies from the ground, and they gradually regained sone
degree of composure.

Alexander hinself went to pay a visit to the captive princesses the
next day. He took with hiw Hephastion. Hephastion was Alexander's
personal friend. The two young men were of the Sane age, and, though
Alexander had ‘the good sense to retain in power all the old and
experienced officers which his father had enployed, both in the court
and army, he showed that, after all, anbition had not overwhelmed and
Stifled 11 the kindlier feelings of the heart, by his strong
attachment to this young companion. Hephaztion wat his confidant, his
associate, his personal. friend, He did what very few monarchs have
fone, either before on since; in securing for himself the pleasures of
feiendship, and of intimate social comunion with a heart kindred to
his own, without ruining hiaself by committing to a favorite powers
hich ne was not qualified to wield. Alexander left the wise and
experienced Parmenio to manage the canp, while he took the young and
handsome Hephastion to acconpany hin on his visit to the captive
queens

nen the two friends entered the tent, the ladies were, from some
cause, deceived, and mistook Hephastion for Alexander, and addressed
hin, accordingly, with tokens of high respect and honage. One of their
attendants immediately rectified the mistake, telling thes that the
‘ther was Alexander. the ladies were at first overwhelmed with
confusion, and attempted to apologize; but the king reassured then at
fonce by the easy and good-natured manner with which he passed aver the
fsistake, saying st waz no mistake at ail. "It, Ss true,” said he, "that
Tan Aloander, but then he is Alexander too."

‘he wife of Darius was young and very beautiful, and they had a little
son who as with then in the camp. It seeas alaost unaccountable that
Darius should have brought such a helpless and defenseless. charge with
hin into carps and fields of battle. But the truth was that he had no
dea of evena battle with Alexander, and a5 to defeat, he did not
contemplate the renotest possibility of it. He regarded Alexander as a
were boy--energetic and daring it is true, and at the head of 3
desperate band of adventurers; but he considered his whole force as
altogether too insignificant to make any stand against such a vast
military pover as he was bringing ageinst him. He presuned that he
ould retreat as fast a5 possible before the Persian army cane near
him. The idea of such 2 boy coming down at break of day, fron narrow
defies of the mountains, upon his vast encanpaent covering all the
Plains, and in twelve hours putting the whole mighty mass to Flight,
Nas what never entered his imagination at all. The exploit was,
Indeed, a very extraordinary one. Alexander's forces may have
Consisted of forty or Fifty thousand men, and, if we may belseve these
Story, there were over a hundred thousand Persiane Left dead upon the
Field. Many of these were, however, killed by the dreadful confusion
and violence of the retreat ae vast bodies of horsenen, pressing
Through the defiles, rode over and traapled down the foot soldiers who
were foiling in awful confusion along the way, having fled before the
horsenen left the Field

Alexander had heard that Darius had left the greater part of his royal
‘treasures in Damascus, and he sent Parwenio there to Seize them. This
expedition waz successful. An enormous anount oF gold and silver fell
‘oto Alexander's hands. the slate was coined into money, and many of


Page 43, Instance 0, Class: Text
Darius got together 2 small rennant of his army and continued his
flight. He did not stop until he had crossed the Euphrates. He then
Sent an embassador to Alexander to make propositions for peace. He
esonstrated with him, in the communication which he made, for coming
thus to invade his dominions, and urged him to withdraw and be
Satisfied with his oun kingdoa. He offered him any sum he might name
a5 a ranson for his mother, wife, and child, and agreed that if he
‘ould deliver then up to hia on the payment ‘of the ransom, and depart
‘ron his dominions, he would thenceforth regard him ae an ally and 3
Friend

Alexander replied by 2 letter, expressed in brief but very decided
language. He said that the Persians had, under the ancestors of
Darius, crossed the Hellespont, invaded Greece, Isid waste the
country, and destroyed cities and towne, and had thus done them
Sncalculable Snjury; and that Bardus himself had been plotting against
his (Rlexander's) Life, and offering rewards to any one who would kil
hin. "I am acting, then,” continued Alexander, “only on the
defensive. The gods, who always favor the right, have given me the
victory. i am now monarch of a large part of Asia, and your sovereign
king. If you will adnit this, and come to me a5 my subject, Twill
restore to you your mother, your wife, and your child, without any
anson. And, at any rate, whatever you decide in respect to these
proposals, if you wish to conmunicate with me on any subject,
hereafter, 1 shall pay no attention to what you send unless you
address it to me as your King.”

one circumstance occurred at the close of this great victory which
Allustrates the sagnanimity of Alexander's character, and helps £0
explain the very strong personal attachment wnich every body within
the circle of his influence so obviusly felt for hin. He found 2
{great nunber of envoys and enbassadors from the various states of
Greece at the Persian court, and these persons fell into his hands
Snong the other captives. Now the states and cities of Greece, all
except Sparta and Thebes, which last city he had destroyed, were
Combined ostensibly in the confederation by which Alexande* was
Sustained. Ie seems, however, that there was a secret enmity against
him in Greece, and various parties had sent messengers and agents to
‘the Persian court to aid in plots and schenes to interfere with and
defeat Alexander's plans. The Thebans, scattered and disorganized as
‘they were, had sent envoys in this aj. Now Alexander, in considering
wat disposition he should make of these enissaries from his own Land,
‘decidea to regard then 211 as traitors except the Thebans. All except
‘the Thebans were traitors , he maintained, for acting secretly
against his, while ostensibly, and by solemn covenants, they were his
Friends. "The case of the Thebans is very different,” said he. “I have
destroyed their city, and they have a right to consider me their
feneny, and to do all’ they can to oppose my progress, and to regain
heir oun lost existence and their former power." SO he gave them
their Liberty and sent then amay with marks of consideration and
honor

‘As the vast army of the Persian monarch had now been defeated, of
course none of the smaller kingdons or provinces thought of resisting.
‘They yielded one after another, and Alexander appointed governors of
his oun to rule over then, He advanced in this manner along the
eastern shores of the Mediterranean Sea, meeting with no obstruction
Until he reached the great and powerful city of Tyre


Page 44, Instance 0, Class: Text
The city of Tyre.--1ts situation and extent.--Punsuits of the
Jyrians.--Their great wealth and resources.--The walls of
‘yre.--Inéluence and power of Tyre.--Alexander hesitates in regard
to Tyre.--Presents from the Tyrians.--Alexander refused aduittance
Into Tyre, fe resolves to attack it,--Alexander's plan.--ite
aifFiculties and dangers.--Enthusiasm of the army.--construction

ff the pler.--Progress of the work.--Counter operations of the
Tyrians.--Structures erected on the pier.--The Tyrians fit up a fire
ship.--the snip fired and set adrift.--The conflagration. -EfFects
Of the storm.--The work began anew.-vAlexander collects. 3
Flect.--harlike engines.--Double galleys.--The wonen renoved from
syre.--The siege advances.--Undaunted courage of the Tyrians.--A
bbeeach made.--the assault.--storming the city.--Sarbarous crueities
of Alexander.--changes in Alexander's character.--his harsh message
{to Darius.--Alexander’'s reply to Parsenio.--The hero rises, but the
nan sinks.--Lysinachus.--Alexander's adventure in the mountains.--Wat
Eredits to be given to the adventure.

‘he city of Tyre stood on a small island, three or four miles in
ianeter,[B] on the easteen shores of the Mediterranean Sea. It was,
Sn those days, the greatest commercial city in the world, and it
exercised a great maritine power by weans of its fleets and ships,
Mich traversed every part of the Mediterranean.

[Footnote 8: There are different statenents in cespect to the size of
this island, varying from theee to nine miles in circunference.]

tyre had been built originally on the main-Land; but in some of the
wars which it had to encounter with the kings of Babylon in the East,
this old city Nad been abandoned by the inhabitants, and a new one
built upon an island not far from the shore, which could be more
easily defended from an eneay. The old city'had gone to ruin, and its
Place was occupied by old walls, fallen towers, stones, colunns,
Srches, and other remains of the ancient magnificence of the place.
‘he island on which the Tyre of Alexander's day had been built was
about half a sile fron the shore. The water between was about eighteen
Feet deep, and formed a harbor for the vestels. The great business of
the Tyrians was commerce. They bought and sold merchandise in all the
ports of the Mediterranean Sea, and transported it by their merchant
Wessels to and fro. They had also fleets of war galleys, which they
Used to protect their interests on the high seas, and in the various
ports which their merchant vessels visited. They were thus wealthy and
Powerful, and yet they Lived shut up upon their little island, and
ere alndst entirely independent of the main-land.

The city itself, however, though contracted in extent on account of
‘the Saal dimensions of the isiand, was very compactly built and
strongly fortified, and t contained a vast nusber of stately and
magnificent edificés, which were filled with stores of wealth that had
been accumulated by the aercantile enterprise and thrift of many
generations. Extravagant stories are told by the historians and
Esographers of those days, in respect to the scale on which the
Structures of Tyre were built. It was said, for instance, that. the
walls were one hundred and Fifty feet high: It is true that the walls
ose directly from the surface of the water, and of course a
Considerable part of their elevation wae required to bring them up to
‘the level of the surface of the land; and then, in addition to this,


Page 45, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘There might have been some places where the walls themselves, or
structures connected with then, were carried up to the elevation above
famed, though it is scarcely t0 be supposed that such could have been
‘their ordinary dimensions.

it any rate, Tyre was a very wealthy, magnificent, and powerful city,
intent on its Conmercial operations, and well furnished with means oF
protecting then at sea, but feeling little interest, and taking little
part, in the contentions continually arising’ anong the rival powers
hich had possession of the land. Their policy wae £0 retain their
Independence, and yet to keep on good teras with all other power's, 50
‘that their commercial intercourse with the ports of all nations might
go on undisturbed.

IE was, of course, a very serious question with Alexander, as his
route lay now through Phoenicia and in the neighborhood of Tyre,

What he should do in respect to such a port, He did not 1ike to’ leave
[t'behind hin and proceed to the eastward; for, in case of any
reverses happening to hia, the Tyrians would be very Likely to act
decidedly against him, and their power on the Mediterranean would
tenable then to act very efficiently against him on all the coasts of
Greece and Aria Minor. On the other hand, it seemed a desperate
Undertaking to attack the city. He had none but land forces, and the
Ssland was half a mile fron the shore, Sesides its enormous walls,
Fising perpendicularly out of the water, it was defended by chips’ wel
farsed!and manned. Tt was not possible to surround the city and starve
ie into submission, as the inhabitants had wealth to buy, and ships to
boeing in, any quantity of provisions and stores by sea. Alexander,
however, determined not to follow Darius toward the east, and. Leave
Such a Stronghold as this behing hia.

‘he Tyrians wished to avoid a quarrel if it were possible. They sent
Complimentary messages to Alexander, congratulating him on Mis
conquests, and disavowing all Feelings of hostility to hia. They also
Sent hin 2 golden croun, a5 many of the other states of Asia had done,
dn token of their yielding a general subaission to his authority.
Alexander returned very gracious replies, and expressed to then his
intention of coming to Tyce for the purpose of offering sacrifices, as
he Said, to Hercules, 2 god whom the Tyrians worshiped.

‘he Tyrians knew that wherever Alexander went he went at the head of
his atmy, and his coming into Tyre at all inplied necessarily his
taking military possession of it. They thought 3€ might, perhaps, be
soneuhat difficult to dispossess such a visitor after he should once
get installed in their castles and palaces. So they sent hin word that
fe would not be in their power to receive him in the city itself, but
‘that he could offer the sacrifice which he intended on the main-Land,
as there was a temple sacred to Hercules among the ruins there.
Alexander then called 2 council of his officers, and stated to them
his views, He said that, on reflecting fully upon the subject, he had
cone to the conclusion that it was best to postpane pushing his
expedition forward into the heart of Persia until he should have
Subdued Tyre completely, and made hinselt master of the Nediterranean
Sea. fie 224d, also, that he should take poscession of Egypt before
turning his ares toward the forces that Oardus wae gathering ageinst
hhin in the act. The generals of the army concurred in this opinion,
and Alexander advanced toward Tyre. The Tyrians prepared for their
defence.

‘After examining carefully all the circumstances of the case, Alexander
conceived the very bold plan of building a broad causeway from the
falnlsnd to the Ueland bnahich the csey wes founded, act of the


Page 46, Instance 0, Class: Text
Waits or Bhe city, where he could then plant nas engines and make a
breach. this would Seem to be a very desperate undertaking. It is true
‘the stones remaining on the site of the old city afforded sufficient
materials for the construction of the pier, but then the work must go
fon against a trenendous opposition, both fron the walls of the city
Mtseif and from the Tyrian ships in the harbor. It would seen to be
almost inpossible to protect the sen fron these attacks so as to allow
‘he operations to proceed at all, and the difficulty and danger must
Sncrease very rapidly a= the work should approach the walls oF the
city. Sut, notwithstanding these objections, Alexander detersined to
proceed. tyre must be taken, and this was obviously the only possible
rode of taking it.

‘he soldiers advanced to undertake the work with great ceadiness,
‘hein strong personal attachment to Alexander; their confidence chat
watever he should plan and attenpt would succeed; the novelty and
boldness of this design of reaching an island by building an isthmus
to it fron the main-land--these and other similar consideratéon=
excited the ardar and enthusiasm of the troops to the highest. degree.
4n constructing works of this kind in the water, the material used 4s
Sometimes stone and sonetines earth. So far as earth 1s eqployed, it
fe necessary to resort to sone means to prevent its spreading under
‘the water, or being washed avay by the dash of the waves at sts sides.
his is usually effected by driving what are called piles_, which are
ong beans of wood, painted at the end, and driven into the earth by
imeans of powerful engines. Alexander sent parties of men into the
fountains of Lebanon, where were vast forests of cedars, which were
very celebrated in ancient tines, and which are often alluded to in
the sacred scriptures. They cut doun these trees, and brought the
tens of them to the shore, where they sharpened’ then 3t one end and
Grove then into the sand, in onder to protect the sides of their
fenbanknent. Others brought stones from the ruins and tumbled them
{nto the sea in the direction where the pier was to be built. It was
Sone time before the work made such progress as to attract much
attention from Tyre. At length, however, when the people of the city
Saw it gradually increasing in size and advancing toward then, they
concluded that they must engage in eamest in the work of arresting
BES progress.

Tey accordingly constructed engines on the walls to throw heavy darts
and stones over the water to the men upon the pier. They sent secretly
fo the tribes that inhabited the valleys and cavines. among. the
mountains, to attack the parties at work there, and they landed forces
from the city at some distance from the pier, and then marched along
‘the shore, and attempted to drive avay the men that were engaged in
carrying stones from the ruins. They also fitted up and manned sone
galleys of large size, and brought thes up near to the pier itself,
and attacked the men uho were at work upon it with stones, darts,
arrows, and missiles of every description

But all was of no avail. The work, though inpeded, still went on,
Alexander built large screens of wood upon the pier, covering them
with hides, which protected his soldiers from the weapons of the
fneny, so that they could carry on their operations safely Behind
‘them. ay these means the work advanced for sone distance further. As
st advanced, various structures were erected upon it, especially along
‘the sides and at the end toward the city. These structures consisted
of great engines for driving piles, and machines for throwing stones
land darts, and toners carried up to a great height, to enable the sen
‘0 throw stones and heavy weapons down upon the galleys which might
attenpt to approach then.

‘se length the Tyrians deterained on attenpting to destroy all these
wooden works by means of what iz called in modern times 4 fire ship.


Page 47, Instance 0, Class: Text
Lind Thow Jmedod ae fick ith Jdobt dep wand. amd thew mesma met
kind, They loaded it first with Light dry wood, and they poured pitch,
and tar, and oil over ali this wood to make it burn with Fiercer
Flanes.’ they saturated the sails and the cordage in the same manner,
and Laid trains of conbustible materials through all parts of the
Vessel, s0 that when fire should be set in one part 4 would
immediately spread every where, and set the upole mass in flanes ot
‘once. They toned this ship, ona windy é3y, near to the enemy's works,
fand on the side from which the wind was blowing. they then put 4 in
fotion toward the pier at a point uhere there was the greatest
Collection of engines and machines, and when they had got as near as
‘hey dared to go themselves, the men uho were on board set the trains
on fire, and nade their escape in boats. The flanes ran all over the
Wessel with inconceivable rapidity. The vessel itself deifted doun
Upon Alexander's works, notwithstanding the mast strenuous exertions
Of his soldiers to keep it away. The frames and engines, and the
fenarmous and complicated machines which had been erected, took fire,
land the whole mass was soon enveloped in a general conflagration:

‘The men nade desperate attenpts to defend their works, but all in
vain. Some were killed by arrows and darts, some were burned to death,
land others, in the confusion, fell into the sea. Finally, the army was
Goliged to’ draw back, and to’ abandon all that was combustible in the
Vast construction they had reared, to the devouring Flames.
[1llustration: THE SIEGE OF TYRE.

Not long after this the seo itself cane to the aid of the Tyrians.
There was a stora; and, as a consequence of it, 2 heavy swell rolled
in from the offing, which soon undersined and washed away a large
part of the pier. the effacts of heavy sea on the most nascive and
Substantial structures, when they are fairly exposed to its impulse,
are far greater than would be conceived possible by those who had not
Witnessed then. The most ponderous stones are renoved, the strongest
fastenings are torn asunder, and embankments the aost compact and
solid are undermined and washed avay. The stora, in this case,
destroyed in a few hours the work of many months, while the army of
‘Alexander looked on fron the shore aitnessing its ravages in dismay.
nen the stora was over, and the first shock of chagrin and
Gisappointnent had passed fron the minds of the men, Alexander
prepared to resuse the work with fesh vigor and energy. The en
Commenced repairing the pier and widening it, so as to increase its
Strength and capacity. They dragged whole trees to the edges of it,
and sunk then, branches and all, to the bottom, to form a sort of
Platform there, to prevent the Stones fron sinking into the slime.
‘hey built new’ towers and engines, covering then with green hides to
wake thew Fire-proof; and thus ‘they were soon advancing. again, and
gradually drawing nearer to the city, and in a wore threatening and
Formidable manner than ever.

Alexander, finding that his efforts were dmpeded very much by the
ships of the Tyrians, deterained on collecting and equipping a Fleet
Of his om. this he did at Sidon, uhich was a toun a short distance
north of Tyre. He enbarked on board this fleet hinself, and came doun
with it into the Tyrlan seas. with this Fleet he had various success
he chained many of the ships together, two and two, at 2 little
{distance apart, covering the inelosed’ space with a platform, on which
‘the soldiers could stand to fight. The men also erected engines on
these platforas to attack the city. These engines were of various
kinds. There was what they called the battering ram, which was a long
and very Reavy bean of wood, headed with iron er brass. This beam was
Suspended by a chain in the middle, so that 1t could be swung back and
forth by the soldiers, its head straking agoinct the wall each tine,
by which means the wail would sometimes be soon battered down. They


Page 48, Instance 0, Class: Text
qeens of the elastic force of stroay bers of wood, or ef steel, or
‘hat of twisted ropes. The part of the machine upon which the Stone
was placed would be draun back by the united strength of many of the
Foldiers, and then, as 1t recovered itself when released, the stone
would be’ thrown off into the sir with prodigious velocity and force:
Alexander's double galleys answered very well as long as the water was
smooth; but sonetines, when they were caught out in a swell, the
rolling of the waves would rack and twist. them so as to teat the
platforms asunder, and sink the men in the sea. Thus difficulties
Unexpected and formidable were continually arizing. Alexander,
however, persevered through them al. The Tyrians, finding themselves
ressed’wore and more, and seeing that the dangers inpending became
fore and more formidable every day, at length concluded to send 3
rest nunber of the wonen and children ayay to Carthage, which was 2
reat comercial city in africa. They were determined not to submit to
Alexander, but to carry their resistance to the very last extremity,
fad as the closing scenes of a siege, especially if the place is at
‘ast taken by stom, are awful beyond description, they wished to save
‘hein wives, and daughters, and helpless babes from having to witness
the

In the mean tine, as the siege advanced, the parties becane sore and
fore incensed against each other. They treated the captives which they
tfoak on either side with greater and grester cruelty, each thinking
‘that they were only retaliating worse injuries from the other. The
Macedonians approached nearer and nearer. The resources of the unhappy
city were gradually cut off and its strength worn auay. The engines
Spproached nearer snd nearer to the walls, untedl the Dattering rane
bore directly upon then, and breaches began to be nade, At length one
rest breach on the southern side uae Found to be “practicable,” a=
they call it. Alexander began to prepare for the final assault, and
‘the Tyrians saw before then the horrible prospect of being taken by
Still they would not subait. Submission would now have done but Little
food, though it might have saved sone of the final horrors of the
Scene. Alexander had become greatly exasperated by the long resistance
Ninich the Tyrians had made. They probably could not now have averted
destruction, but they might, perhaps, have prevented its coming upon
‘them in so terrible a shape’ as the inruption of thirty thousand
frantic and infuriated soldiers theeugh the breaches 1n their walls
to take their city by storm

‘he breach by which Alexander proposed to force his entrance was on
‘the southern side. He prepared 2 nusber of ships, with platforms
raised upon them in such a manner that, on getting near the walls,
‘they could be let doun, and form a sort of bridge, over which the men
could pass to the broken fragnents of the wall, and thence ascend
‘Ehrough the Breach above.

‘he plan succeeded. The ships advanced to the proposed place of
Landing. The bridges were Jet down. The men eravded over then to the
feat of the wall. They clanbered up through the breach tothe
battlements above, although the Tyrians thronged the passage and made
the most desperate resistance, Hundreds were killed by darts, and
arrows, and falling stones, and their bodies tunbled Into the sea. The
‘thers, paying no attention to their falling comrades, and drowning
{the horrid screans of the crushed and the dying with their oun Frantic
shouts of rage and fury, pressed on up the Broken wall till they
Feached the Battlenents’ above. The vast throng then rolled along. ypon
the top of the wall till they cane to stairways and slopes by which
‘they could descend into the city, and, pouring down through all these
‘avenues, they spread over the streets, and satiated the hatred and


Page 49, Instance 0, Class: Text
rage, which had been gathering strength for seven long months, in
bursting into houses, and killing and destroying all that cane in
their way. Thus the city was stormed.

After the soldiers were weary with the work of slaughtering the
wretched inhabitants of the city, they found that many still remained
live, and Alexander tarnished the character for generosity and
Forbearance for which he had thus far been distinguished by the
Cruelty with which he treated then. Some were executed, some thrown
nto the sea; and it 2 even said chat two thousand were ~crucified_
along the sea-shore. This may mean that their bodies were placed upon
Crosses after Life had been destroyed by sone sore humane method than
{rucifixion. At any rate, we find frequent indications from this tine
‘that prosperity and power were beginning to exert their usual
Unfavorable influence upon Alexander's character. He becane haughty,
Smperious, and cruel. He lost the modesty and gentleness which seened
to characterize him in the earlier part of his 1ife, and began to
assune the oral character, a5 welll as perform the exploits, of 3
military hero,

‘A good illustration of this 1s afforded by the answer that he sent to
Darius, about the time of the storming of Tyre, in reply to a second
conmunieation which he had received from him proposing terns of peace.
Darius offered him a very large sun cf money far the ranson of his
other, wife, and child, and agreed to give up to hin all the country
he had’ conquered, including the whole territory west of the Euphrates.
He also offered him his daughter Statira in marriage. He recommended
to hin to accept these terns, and be content with the possessions he
had already acquired; that he could not expect to succeed, if he
should try, in crossing the mighty rivers of the East, which were in
‘the way of his march foward the Persian dominions

Alexander replied, that 4f he wished to marry his daughter he could do
Stwithout his consent} as to the ransom, ne was not in want of money;
dn respect to Darius's offering to give him up all west of the
Euphrates, it wae absurd for aman fo speak of giving what was no
longer his oun; that he had crossed too many seas in his ailstary
expeditions, since he left Macedon, to feel any concern about the
Stivers that he mignt find in his way; and that he should continue
Zo pursie Darius wherever he might retreat in search of safety and
protection, and he had no fear but that he should find and conquer him
Se last.

4 was a harsh and cruel message to send to the unhappy monarch whom
he had already £0 greatly injured. Parsenio advised hin to accept
Darius's offers. "l would,” said he, "if Z were Alexander.” "Yee,"
said Alexander, “and so would 2 1f f were Parmenio.” What a reply from
a youth of twenty-two toa venerable general of sixty, who had been so
tele and faithful a friend, and so efficient a coadjutor bath to his
Father and to hinself, for So many years.

‘he siege and storming of Tyre has always been considered one of the
greatest of Alexander's exploits. The boldness, the perseverance, the
Sndonitable energy which ne hinself and all his army manifectes,
uring the seven months of their Herculean toil, attracted the
admiration of the world. And yet we Find our feelings of sympathy for
his character, and interest in his fate, somewhat alienated by the
Indications of pride, inpersousness, and cruelty which begin to
appear. While he rises in our estimation as a silitary hero, he begins
fo sink somewhat 32 3 man.

nd yet the change was not sudden. He bore during the siege his part
Sn the privations and difficulties which the soldiers had to endure;
and the dangers to which they had to be exposed, he was always willing
‘to share. One night he was out with a party upon the mountains. Anong


Page 50, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander in dudea.--Josephus, and the character of his
weitings.--Alexander's visit to Jerusalen.--Josephus"s account of
$e.--The high priest Jaddus.--His dreane,--The procession of
priests.-vAlesander's account of his dreaa.--Alexander Joins in the
Devish cerenonies.--Prophecies of Daniel.--Doubts about Alexander's
Visit,--Siege.--Alexander receives # wound.--Gaza taken by

Storm. --Alexander's Brutality to the brave Betis.—-Rich
treasures.--Story of Alexander's youth.--Pelusiun.--Menphis.-Fertility
of Egypt.--Deserts of Egypt.--cause of their sterility.--The Great
Oasis,- desis of Siwah.--Teaple of 2upiter Amon.--Alexander aspires
te divine honors.--Alexander crosses the desert. ite sublinsty. ~The
canel.-vscarcity of water.--Sand storms in the desert.--Areival at the
Oasis. --Magnificent ceresonies. Return to Menphis.--Alexander Jokes
about his divinity.--Founding of Alexandria.--tsland of Pharas.--The
Lighe-nouse.-Alexandria the only remaining sonument of Alexander's
greatness

After completing the subjugation of Tyre, Alexander commenced his
frarch for Egypt. His route led him through 2udea. The tine was about
‘three hundred years before the birth of christ, and, of course, this
passage of the great conqueror through the land of israel took’ place
between the historical periods of the Old Testanent and of the New, so
that no account of it is given in the sacred volute.

‘There was a Jewish writer naned Josephus, who Lived and wrote a few
years after Christ, and, of course, more than three hundred years
after Alexander. He wrote a history of the Jews, which isa very
entertaining book to read; but he Liked so much to magnify the
Smportance of the events in the history of his country, and to
enbellish then with marvelous and supernatural incidents, that his
harratives have not always been received with inplicit faith. Josephus
Says that, as Alexander pacsed through Palestine, he went to pay 2
Vitic to Jerusalem. The eireustances of this visit, according to his
account, were these.

‘The city of Tyre, before Alexander besieged it, as it lived entirely


Page 50, Instance 1, Class: Text
his few immediate attendants was Lysimachus, one of his former
teachers, uho always loved to acconpany hin’ at such tines. Lysinachus
wae advanced in life, and conexnat infirn, and consequently could not
Keep up with the rest in the march. Alexander renained with
Lysimachus, and ordered the rest to go on. The road at length becane
so rugged that they had to dismount from their horses and walk.
Finally they lost their vay, and found thenselves obliged to stop for
‘the night. They had no fire. They saw, hoever, at 2 distance, some
camp fires blazing which belonged to the barbarian tribes against whom
‘the expedition was directed. Alexander went to the nearest one. There
were tho men lying by it, who had been stationed to take care of it,
he advanced stealthily to then and killed them both, probably while
they were asleep. He then took a brand from their fire, carried st
back to his oun encampnent, uhere he made a blazing fire for hinselt
fand Lysinachis, and they passed the night in comfort and safety. This
Is the story. How far we are to give credit to it, each reader must
Judge for hinself. One thing d= certain, however, ‘that there are many
inllitary heroes of whom such stories would not be even fabricated.


Page 50, Instance 2, Class: Text
Alexander in dudea.--Josephus, and the character of his
weitings.--Alexander's visit to Jerusalen.--Josephus"s account of
$e.--The high priest Jaddus.--His dreane,--The procession of
priests.-vAlesander's account of his dreaa.--Alexander Joins in the
Devish cerenonies.--Prophecies of Daniel.--Doubts about Alexander's
Visit,--Siege.--Alexander receives # wound.--Gaza taken by

Storm. --Alexander's Brutality to the brave Betis.—-Rich
treasures.--Story of Alexander's youth.--Pelusiun.--Menphis.-Fertility
of Egypt.--Deserts of Egypt.--cause of their sterility.--The Great
Oasis,- desis of Siwah.--Teaple of 2upiter Amon.--Alexander aspires
te divine honors.--Alexander crosses the desert. ite sublinsty. ~The
canel.-vscarcity of water.--Sand storms in the desert.--Areival at the
Oasis. --Magnificent ceresonies. Return to Menphis.--Alexander Jokes
about his divinity.--Founding of Alexandria.--tsland of Pharas.--The
Lighe-nouse.-Alexandria the only remaining sonument of Alexander's
greatness


Page 51, Instance 0, Class: Text
neighboring countries for a supply of food. The people were
Aecendingly accustomed to purchase grain io Phoenicia, in Judea, and
Sn Egypt, and transport it by theie ships to the island. Alexander, sn
‘the same manner, hen besieging the city, found that he must depend
Upon the neighboring countries for supplies of Food; and he
accordingly sent requisitions for such supplies to several places,
land, anong others, to Judea. the Jews, as Josephus says, refused to
Send any such supplies, saying that i¢ would be inconsistent with
Fidelity to Darius, under whose government they were

Alexander took no notice of this reply at the time, being occupied
with the siege of Tyre; but, 35 soon as that city was taken, and he
Nas ready to pass through Judea, he directed his march toward
Jerusalem with the intention of destroying the city.

Now the chief magistrate at Jerusalem at this time, the one who had
the comand of the city, ruling it, of course, under a general
responsibility to the Persian government, was’ the high priest. His
rane was Jaddus. In the tine of christ, about three hundred years
after this, the nane of the high-priest, as the reader will recollect,
Nae Calaphas. Jaddus and all the dohabitants of Jerusalem were very
fmuch alarmed. They knew not what to do. The siege and capture of Tyre
had impressed then all with 2 strong sense of Alexander's terrible
energy and aartial power, and they began to anticipate certain
fdestnuction.

daddus caused great sacrifices to be offered to Almighty God, and
public and solemn prayers were made, to implore his guidance and
Protection. the next day after these services, he told the people that
hey had nothing to fear. God had appeared to'him in 3 dream, and
‘directed hin what to do, "he are not to resist the conqueror,” said
he, "but to go forth to meet him and welcome him. We are to Strew the
City with lowers, and adorn it'as for a festive celebration. The
priests are to be’ dressed in their pontifical robes and go forth, and
Che inhabitants are to follow them in'a civic procession, in this way
we ane to go out to meet Alexander as he advances--and all will be
well.

‘these directions were followed. Alexander was coming on with a full
deteraination to destroy the city. when, however, he saw the
Procession, and cane near enough to distinguish the appearance and
firess of the high priest, he stopped, seened surprised and pleased,
Sand advanced toward hin with an sir of the profoundest deference. and
respect. He seemed to pay him almost religious hanage and adoration
Every one nat astonished. Parmento acked him for an explanation.
Alexander nade the following extraordinary statement:

“then 1 was in Hacedon, before setting out on this expedition, while 1
was revolving the subject in my mind, musing day after day on’ the
feans of conquering Asia, one night i had 2 reaarkable drean. In ay
firean this very priest appeared before me, dressed just a= he is nod.
He exhorted me to banish every fear, to cross the Hellespont boldly,
and to push forward into the Meart of Asia. He said that God would
march at the head of my army, and give me the victory over all the
Persians. T recognize this priest as the sane person that appeared to
ne then. He has the sane countenance, the sane dress, the sane
Stature, the sane air. It is through’ his encouragenent and aid that I
fam here, and Yan ready to worship and adore the God whose service he
Sdsinisters."

Alexander joined the high priest in the procession, and they returned
to Jerusalem together. There Alexander united with’ then and with the
Jeuz of the city in the celebration ef religious rites, by offering
aeiticos and oblotions in the Jeaich manner, the weitines which ore


Page 52, Instance 0, Class: Text
row printed together in our Bibles, as the Old Testanent, were, in
those days, wratten separately on parchment rolls, and kept. in’ the
temple. The priests produced fron the rolls the one containing the
Prophecies of Daniel, and they read and interpreted sone of these
Prophecies to Alexander, which they considered to have reference to
him, though written many hundred years before. Alexander was, 35
Josephus relates, very much pleased at the sight of these ancient
Predictions, and’the interpretation put upon then by the priests. He
assured the Jews that they should be protected in the exercise of all
thein rights, and especially in their religious worship, and he also
Promised’ them that he would take their brethren who resided in Media
find Babylon under his special charge when he should cone into
Possession of those places. These Jews of Media and Babylon were the
(descendants of captives which had been carried avay from these native
‘land in foreer wars.

Such is the story which Josephus relates. The Greek historians, on the
‘ther nang, make na mention of this visit to Jerusalem) and sone
persons think that it was never made, but that the story arose and was
Propagated from generation to generation among the Jews, thraugh the
dnfluence of their desire to magnify the importance and’ influence of
‘hein worship, and that Josephus incorporated the account into his
history without sufficiently verifying the facts.

However it may be in regard to Jerusalem, Alexander was delayed at
Gaza, which, as aay be Seen upon the map, is on the shore of the
Mediterranean Sea. Tt was a place of considerable commerce. and wealth,
fand was, at this time, under the command of a governor whon Dardus had
Stationed there. His nana was Betis. Betis refused to surrender the
place. Alexander stopped to besiege it, and the siege delayed him tho
onthe. He was very mich exasperated at this, both against Setis and
against the city.

His unreasonable anger was very much increased by a wound which he
received. He was near a mound which his soldiers had been constructing
hear the city, to place engines upon for an attack upon the walls,
Men an arrow shot from one of the engines upon the walls struck him
Jn the breast. It penetrated his araor, and wounded hin deeply in the
Shoulder. The wound uas very painful for some tine, and the suffering
ich he endured from it only added fuel to the flane of his anger
against the city.

‘ke last breaches were made in the walls, and the place was taken by
Storm. Alexander treated the wretched captives with extrene cruelt},
He cut the garrison to pieces, and sold the inhabitants to slavery. As
for Betis, he dealt with hin ina manner alnost too horrible to be
described, The reader will recollect that Achilles, at the siege of
‘roy, after killing Hector, dragged his dead body around the walls of
the City. Alexander, growing more cruel as he becane more accustoned
tro war and bloodshed, had been intending to initate this example <0
Soon as he could Find an enemy worthy of such a fate. He now
detensined to carry his plan into execution with Betis. He ordered his
nto his presence, A few years before, he would have revarded him for
his fidelity in his master's service; but now, grown Selfish, hard
hearted, and revengeful, he looked upon him with a countenance full of
Vingiceive exultstion, and said,

“You are not going to die the simple death that you desire. You have
got the worst torments that revenge can invent to suffer.”

Betis did not reply, but looked upon Alexander with a cala, and
composed, and unsubdued air, which incensed the conqueror nore and


Page 53, Instance 0, Class: Text
He then ordered holes to be made through the heels of his unhappy
captive, and, passing a rope through then, had the body fastened to a
Chariot, and’ dragged about the city till no life remained,

Alexander found sany ich treasures in Gaza. He sent a lange part of
‘them to his mother Olympias, whom he had left in Macedon. Alexander's
affection for his mother scene to have been mare permanent than alnost
ny other good trait in hie character, he found, in addition to other
Stores of valuable werchandise, @ large quantity of Frankincense. and
tyre, These are guns which were brought from Arabia, and were very
costly. They were used chiefly in making offerings and in burning
Sncenge to the gods.

nen Alexander was a young nan in Macedon, before his father’s death,
he was one day present at the offering of sacrifices, and one of his
teachers and guardians, naned Leonnatus, who was standing by, thought
he was rather profuse in his consunption of frankincense and myrehe He
wae taking it up by hangfuls snd throwing it upon the fire. Leonnatue
eproved him for this extravagance, and told him that when he becane
fatter of the countries where these costly gums were procured, he
Inight be 25 prodigal of then 3s he pleased, but that in the nan tine
Se'would be proper for him to be nore prudent. and economical.
Alexander remenbered this reproof, and, Finding vast stores of these
expensive guns in Gaza, he sent the whole quantity to Leonnatus,
felling his that he sent hin this abundant supply that he might oot
have occasion to be so reserved and sparing for the future in his,
sacrifices to the gods.

After this conquest and destruction of Gaza, Alexander continued his
arch Southard to the frontiers of Egypt. He reached these Frontiers
{at the city of Pelusiun. The Egyptians had been under the Persian
ominion, but they abhorred it, and were very ready to submit to
‘Alexander's sway. They sent enbassadors to meet him upon the
Frontiers. The governors of the cities, az he advanced into the
country, Finding that it would be useless to resist, and warned by the
Perriblé example of Thebes, Tyre, and Gaza, surrendered to him as fast
a: he sutmoned them.

He went to Memphis. Memphis was 2 great and powerful city, situated in
at was called Lover Egypt, on the Nile, just above where the
branches which form the aouthe of the Nile separate. fron the main
Strean. All that part of Egypt is Flat country, having been formed by
‘the deposits brought doun by the Nile. Such land is called alluvial ;
St ds always level, andy ae 1 consists of successive deposits from
‘the turbid waters OF the river, made in the successive inundations, it
foras always a very rich soil, deep and inexhaustible, and is, of
course, extrenely fertile. Egypt has been celebrated for its
Uinexanplea fertility from the earliest tines. It waves with Fields of
orn and grain, and is adorned with groves of the sost luxuriant
frowth and richest verdure.

it 4s only, however, 0 far as the land is formed by the deposits of
‘he Nile, that this scene of verdure and beauty extends. On the east
St 4s bounded by ranges of barren and rocky hills, and on the west by
vast deserts, consisting of moving sands, from which no aninal or
vegetable 1ife can derive the means of existence. The reason of his
“terility seons to be the absence of water. The geological formation
ff the land iz such that 1e furnishes few springs of water, and no
Streas, and in that clinate it seldom on never rains. 1f there is
Water, the fost barren sands will clothe thenselves with sone. species
OF vegetation, which, in its decay, will form a soil’ that will nourish
fore and more fully each succeeding generation of plants. Gut in the
‘absence of water, any surface of earth will soon becone a barren sand.


Page 54, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘ihe wind will drive away every thing imponderable, Leaving only the
heavy sands, to drift in storms, like Fields of stow

nang these African deserts, however, there are sone fertile spots.
They are occasioned by springs which arise in little dells, and which
saturate the ground with woisture for some distance around’ then. The
water from these springs flows for some distance, in many cases, ina
Little strean, before it is finally lost and absorbed in the sands.
‘he whole tract under the influence of this irrigation clothes itself
with verdure. Trees grow upto shade it. It forms a spot whose
beauty, absolutely great, is heightened by the contrast which it
presents to the gloomy and desolate desert by which it ds surrounded.
Such a green spat in the desert is called an Oasis. They are the
resort and the refuge of the traveler and the pilgria, who seek
Shelter and repose upon then in their weary Journeys over the
trackless wilds.

Nor must 4t be supposed that these islands of fertility and verdure
fre always snail. Sone of them are very extensive, and contain 2
Considerable population. There is one called the Great Oasis, which
consists of a chain of fertile tracts of about a hundred miles in
engeh. Another, celled the Oasis of Sivah, hac, in modern times, 3
population of eight thousand souls. This last is situated not far from
he shores of the Heditercanean Sea--at least not very fart perhaps
‘wo or three hundred miles--and it was a very celebrated spot in
Alexander's day.

‘he cause of its celebrity was that it was the seat and center of the
worship of a fanous deity called Jupiter Amon. This god was said to
be the son of Jupiter, though there were all sorts of stories. about,
his origin and early history. He had the fore of a ram, and was
worshiped by the people of Egypt, and also by the Carthaginians, and
by the people of Northern Africa generally. His temple was in this
Oasis, and it was surrounded by a considerable population, which was
Suppotted, in a great degree, by the expenditures of the worshipers
who cane as pilgrins, or otherwise, to sacrifice at his shrine.

Xt 4s said that Alexander, Finding that the various objects of human
ambition which he had been so rapidly attaining by his victories and
Conquests for the past few years were insufficient to satisfy him,
began now to aspire for some supernatural honors, and he accordingly
conceived the design of having hinself declared to be the son of 2
fod. The heroes of Honer were sons of the gods. Alexander envied then
{the fame and honor wich this distinction gave ‘then in the epinion of
nankind. He determined to visit the temple of Jupiter Auton in the
Oasis of Sivah, and £9 have the declaration of his divine orsgin made
by the priests’ there:

He preceeded, accordingly, to the mouth of the Nile, where he found a
very eligible place, a= he believed, far the foundation oF 2
comercial city, and he detersined to build it on his return. Thence
he marched along the shores of the Mediterranean, tovard the west,
Until he reached a place called Parstonium, which will be found upon
the map. He then left the sea-shore and marched south, striking 3
fonce ano the desert when he Left the sea, He was accompanied by @
Small detachment of his army a5 an escort, and they joumeyed eleven
ays before they reached the Oasis.

‘hey had a variety of perilous adventures in crossing the desert. For
the first to days the soldiers were excited and pleased with the
novelty and ronantic grandeur of the scene. The desert has, in sone
agree, the sublinity of the ocean. There is the sane boundless
expanse, the sane vast, unbroken curve cf the horizon, the sane
tracklessness, the sane solitude, There is, in addition, 3 certain
profound and awful stillness and repose, which inparts fo it a new


Page 55, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘he third day the soldiers began to be weary of such a march. They
Seened afraid to penetrate any further into such boundless. and
terrible colitudes, ‘They had been obliged to bring water with them in
jgoat-skins, which were carried by canels. The canel is the only beast
(of burden which can be enployed upon the deserts. There is a
peculiarity in the anatomical structure of this animal by which he can
ake in, at one tine, a supply of water for many days. He is formed,
An fact, for the desert. In his native state he Lives in the oases and
4n the valleys. He eats the herbage which grous anong the racks and
hits that alternate with the great sandy plains in all these
countries, in pacsing from one of his scanty pasturages to another, he
has long journeys to make across the sands, snere, though he can find
Food here and there, there is no water. Providence has forwed him with
a structure adapted to this exigency, and by means of it he becones
extrenely useful £0 man

‘he soldiers of Alexander did not take a sufficient supply of water,
and were reduced, at one tine, to great distress. They were relieved,
the Story says, by a rain, though Fain is extrenely unusual in the
deserts, Alexander attributed this supply to the alraculous
interposition of Heaven. They catch the rain, in such cases, with
Clothe, and afterward wring out the water} though in this instance, as
the historians of that day say, the soldiers did not wait for this
‘tardy method of supply, but the whole detacheent held back their heads
and opened their mouths, to catch the drops of rain as they fell,
‘here was another danger to which they were exposed in their march,
nore terrible even than the scarcity of water. It was that of being
foverwhelned in the clouds of sand and dust which sometines swept over
the desert in gales of wind. These were called sand-storas. The fine
sand flex, in Such cases, in driving clouds, which filles the eyes and
‘Stopped the breath of the traveler, and finally buried his body under
Ste drifts when he laid doon to die. A lange army of fifty thousand
fen, under 2 foraer Persian king, Rad been overwhelmed and destroyed
4n'this way, some years before, in sone of the Egyptian deserts.
‘Alexander's’ soldiers had heard of this calanity, and they were
threatened sonetines with the sane fate, They, however, at Length
escaped all the dangers of the desert, and began to approach the green
and fertile land of the Oasis.

‘the change from the barren and disnal loneliness of the sandy plains
to the groves and the villages, the beauty and the verdure of the
Oasis, was delightful both to Alexander himself and to all his sen.
‘he ptiests at the great tenple of Jupiter Amon received ther all
with marks of great distinction and honor. The mast. solemn and
fmagnificent cerenonies were performed, with offerings, oblations, and
Sacrifices. the priests, after conferring in secret with the god’ in
‘the temple, cane out with the annunciation that Alexander was indeed
his son, and they paid hs, accordingly, almost divine honors. He 4s
Supposed to have bribed then to do this by presents and pay. Alexander
retuned at length to Meaphis, and in all his subsequent orders and
decrees he styled himself Alecander king, son of Jupiter Aamon.
[nitustration: 4 Focus.


Page 56, Instance 0, Class: Text
tent, and the smoke escaped above. They had put upon the focus too
Little fuel one day when they brought it in. Alexander asked the
officer to let him have either sone wood or some frankincense; they
wight consider him, he said, as a god or as a nan, whichever they
pleased, but he wished to be treated either like one on the other.

lon his return from the Oasis Alexander carried forward his plan of
butlding a city at the mouth of the Kile, He drew the plan, st 4s
said, with his own hands. He superintended the constructions, and
Snvited artisans and mechanice from all nations to cone and reside in
At. They accepted the invitation in great ausbers, and the city soon
becane large, and wealthy, and powerful. It was intended as a
Comercial post, and the wisdom and sagacity which Alexander
fanifested in the selection of the site, is shown by the fact that the
City rose simedistely to the rank of the great seat of trade and
comerce for all those shores, and has continued to hold that rank now
for twenty centuries:

‘There was an island near the coast, opposite the city, called the
island of Pharos. They built a most magnificent Light-house upon one
extranity of this island, which was considered, in those days, one of
‘the wonders of the world. It was said to be five hundred feet high.
‘his may have been an exaggeration. At any rate, it was celebrated
‘throughout ‘the world in its day, and its existence and its greatness
trade. an inpression on the human wind which has not yet been effaced
Pharos is the nane for Lighthouse, in many languages, to the present
aay.

In building the city of Alexandria, Alexander laid aside, for 2 tine,
his natural and proper character, and assumed a mode of action in
Strong contrast with the ordinary course of his life. He was,
hroughout most OF his career, a destroyer. He roaned over the world
to dntereupt comerce, ta bresk in upon and disturb the peaceful
pursuits of industry, to batter donn eity walls, and burn dwellings,
nd kill men. This 1s the true vacation of a hero and a conqueror} but
St the mouth of the Nile Alexander laid aside this character. He
turned his energies to the work of planning means to do good. He
constructed 2 port} he built warehouses; he provided secomodations
nd protection for werchants and artisans. The nations exchanged cheic
comodities far nore easily and extensively in consequence of these
facilities, and the means of comfort and enjoysent were multiplied and
Sncreased in thousands and thousands of hute in the great cities of
Egypt, and in the rural districts along the banks of the Nile. The
goed, too, which he thus conenced, has perpetuated itself. Alexandria
fas continued to fulfill its beneficent function for two thousand
years. It is the only monument of his greatness which remains. Every
thing else shich he accomplished perished when he died. How much
better would it have been for the happiness of mankind, a5 well as for
his oun true fane and glory, AF doing good had been the rule of his
life instead of the exception,


Page 57, Instance 0, Class: Text
moon.--Consternation of Alexander's aray.--Enotions produced by an
eclipse. -Its sublimity.--teasures taken by Alexander to allay the
fears of the soldiers.--alekander approaches the Persian
aray.--Preparations far the battle. Alexander surveys the Persian
aray.--Counetl of officers.--tunber of the armies.--Alexander’'s
address. -Parmenio and Alexander. --Alexander's dress.--War
Glephants.--The phalanx.--Defeat of the Persians.--Flight of

Darius. Alexander driven fron the Flelé.--Harch to. Babylon.--Surrender
of Susa.--Plunder of the palace.--hholesaie robbery and murder.--Tmnens
treasures.--Pass of Susa.--The mountaineers,

ALL the western part of Asia was now in Alexander's power. He was
Undisputed aaster of Asia Minor, Phoenicia, Judea, and Egypt. He
Petumed from Egypt to Tyre, leaving goversors to'rule in his nane in
a11 the conquered provinces. The injuries which had been done to Tyre,
uring the siege and at the assault, were repaired, and it was again ¢
wealthy, powerful, and prosperous city. Alexander rested and refreshed
his army there, and spent sone weeks in most splendid festivities and
ejoicings. The princes and potentates of all the neighboring
Countries astenbled to partake of his hospitality, ‘to be entertained
by the ganes, the plays, the spectacles, and the feastings, and to
unite in swelling his court and doing him honor. Ina word, he was the
{general center of attraction for all eyes, and the object of universal
fonage

ALL this tine, however, he was very far from being satisfied, or
Feeling that his work was done. Darius, whom he considered his. great
feneny, was still in the field unsubdued. He had retreated across the
Euphrates, and was employed in asseabling 2 vast collection of forces
from all the Eastern nations which were under his sway, to meet
Alexander in the final contest. Alexander therefore made arrangements
ft Tyre for the proper goveranent of the various kingéons and
Provinces which he had already conquered, and then began to prepare
For marching eastward with the main body of his army

During all this tine the ladies of Darius"s Family, who had been taken
captive at Issus, had been retained in captivity, and made to
cconpary Alexander's aray in its marches. Alexander refused to accede
{to any of the plans and propositions which Oarius made and offered for
‘the redenption of his wife and mother, but insisted on retaining then
a his prisoners. He, however, treated them with respect and high
Consideration. He provided then with royal tents of great
magnificence, and had them conveyed from place to place, when his aray
froved, with all the royal state to which they had been accustomed when
Sn the court of Darius.

4 has been generally thought a proof of nobleness of spirit and
generosity in Alexander thst he treated his captives in this manner.
4 would seem, however, that true generosity would have prompted the
restoration of these unhappy and harless prisoners to the husband and
father who sourned their separation from hin, and their cruel
sufferings, with bitter grief. It is more probable, therefore, that
policy, and 2 regard for nis own aggrandizenent, rather than
Compassion for the suffering, ied him to honor his captive queens. Tt
Nae a great glory to him, in'a martial point of view, to have such
Trophies of his victory in his train; and, of course, the ware highly
he honored the personages, the mare glorious the trophy appeared:
Aecondingly, Alexander aid every thing in his power to magnify the
importance of his royal captives, by the splendor of their retinue,
and the posp and pageantry with which he invested their novenents.


Page 58, Instance 0, Class: Text
wife of Darius, was taken suddenly 411 and died.[C] The tidings were
mediately brought to Alexander, and he repaired without delay to
Sysiganbis's tent. sysigawbis wat the mother of Oarius. she was in
‘the greatest agony of grief. she was lying upon the floor of her tent,
surrounded by the Ladies of her court, and entirely overuhelaed with
Sorrox. Alexander did all in his power to calm and comfort her
[Footnote C: It was the birth of an infant that caused her death,
exhausted and warn down az she doubtless was, by her capesvity and her
Sorrow.

lone of the officers of Queen Statira’s household[o] made his escape
from the canp inedistely after his wistress's death, and fled across
‘the country to Darius, to carry him the heavy tidings. Darius was,
overwhelued with affliction. The officer, however, in farther
Snterviews, gave him such an account of the kind and respectful
‘restnent which the ladies had received from Alexander, during all the
tine of their captivity, as greatly to relieve his mind, and to afford
hin a high degree of comfort and consolation, He exprested's very
strong sense of gratitude to Alexander for his generosity and
kindness, and saia that if his Kingdon of Persia must_ be conquered,
he'sincetely wished that it might fall into the hands of such 3
conqueror as Alexander.

[Footnote 0: & eunuch, 2 sort of officer employed in Eastern nations
An attendance upon ladies of high rank]

By looking at the map at the comencenent of the volume, it will be
seen that the Tigris and the Euphrates are parallel streans, Flowing
‘through the heart of the western part of Asia toward the southeast,
land exptying into the Persian Gulf. The country between these. two
rivers, which was extrenely populous and fertile, was called
Mesopotamia. Darius had collected an inmense army here. The varsous
ddetachnents filled all the plains of Hecopotania, Alexander turned his
course a little northward, intending to pass the River Euphrates at 2
Famous ancient crossing at Thapsacus, which may be seen upon the map.
hen he arrived at this place he found a small Persian aray there.
They, Rowever, retired 3s he approached. Alexander built two bridges
acrois the river, and passed his aray safely over

In the mean tine, Darius, with his enormous host, passed across the
Tigris, and moved touard’ the northward, along the eastern side of the
Fiver. He had to cross the various branches of the Tigris ae he
advanced. At one of then, called the Lycus, which may also be seen
Upon the map, ‘there was a bridge. Tt took the vast host which Oarius
had collected _five days to pass this bridge

nile Darius had been thus advancing to the nortmard into the
latitude where he knew that Alexander must crocs the rivers,
‘Alexander hinself, and his small but compact and fearless body of
Grecian troops, were moving eastward, toward the sane region to which
Darius's Line of march was tending. Alexander at length reached the
Tigris. He was obliged to ford this stream. The banks were steep and
‘the current was Tapia, and the men were in great danger oF being swept
avay. To prevent this’ danger, the ranks, as they advanced, Tinked
‘heir arse together, so thst each man aight be sustained by his
comrades. They held their shields above their heads to keep thes from
‘the water. Alexander waded like the rest, though he kept in front, and
Peached the bank before the others. Standing there, he indicated to
tthe advancing column, by gesticulation, where to land, the noise of
‘the water being too great. to allow his voice to be heard. To see him
Standing there, safely landed, and with an expression of confidence
and triumph in’his attitude and air, aakened fresh energy in the
hosrt of every soldier in the columns which were crossing the stream.


Page 59, Instance 0, Class: Text
Notwithstanding this encouragenent, however, the passage of the troops
and the landing on the bank produced a scene of great confusion. Many
Of the soldiers had tied up 2 portion of their clothes in bundles,
ich they held above their heads, together with their aras, as they
Naded along thraugh the swift current of the stream, They, however,
Found 4¢ dapossible to carry these bundles, but had to abandon them at
‘ast in order to save thenselves, as they staggered along through deep
land rapid water, and over a concealed botton of slippery stones.
‘Thousands of thése bundles, mingled with spears, darts, and every
other sort of weapon that would float, were swept down by the current,
{fo inpede and embarrass the men who were pacsing below.

‘At length, however, the sen thenselves succeeded in getting over in
safety, though a lerge quantity of arms and of clothing was lost.
‘There was no eneay upon the bank to oppose thes. Darius could not, in
Fact, well meet and oppose Alexander in his attempt to cross the
Piven, ‘because he could not determine at what point he would probably
fake the stteqpt, in season to concentrate so large an aray to oppose
his. Alexander's'troops, being 2 comparatively small and compact body,
and being accustomed to sove with great proaptness and celerity, could
fasily evade any attenpt of such an undeldy mase of forces to oppose
his crossing at any particular point upon the strean. At any rate,
Darius did not make any such attempt, and Alexander had no
difticulties to encounter in crossing the Tigris other than the
physical obstacles presented by the current of the stream

Darius's plan was, therefore, not to intercept Alexander on his march,
but £0 choose sone great and’ convenient battle-field, where he covle
collect his forces, and sarshal thes advantageously, and so await an
attack there. He khew very well that his enemy would Seek him out,
Wherever he was, and, consequently, that he might choose his position.
He found such a field in an extensive plain at Guaganela, not far from
the city of Arbela. The spot has received historical inrtality under
‘the mane oF the plain of Arbela:

Darius was several days in concentrating his vast ansies upon this
plain. He constructed encanpments; he leveled the inequalities which
ould interfere with the movements of his great bodies of cavalry; he
{guarded the approaches, too, as much as possible. There is a little
Anstrument used in war called a “caltrop_.[E] It consists of 2 small
ball of iron, with Several sharp points projecting fron it one or tho
Snches each way. If these instroments are. thrown upon the ground at
‘random, one of the points must necessardly be upward, and the horses
‘that tread upon them are Iaued and disabled at once. Darius caused
caltrops to be scattered in the grass and along the roads, wherever
{the army oF Alexander would be likely to approach his troops on the
Held of battle-

[Footnote €: It receives its name from a kind of thistle called the
caltrop.

[nllustration: THE cALTROP.]

Alexander, having crossed the river, encanped for a day or two on the
banks, to'rest and refresh, and to rearrange his army. while here, the
soldiers were one night thrown into consternation by an eclipse of the
fon. Whenever an eclipse of the noon takes place, it iz, of course,
Wen the moon is full, 20 that the eclipse 4 always a sudden, and,
fnong an ignorant people, an unexpected waning of the orb in the
height of its splendor; and as such people know not the cause of the
Pherotenon, they are often extrenely terrified. Alexander's soldiers
ere throun inta consternation by the eclipse. They considered it the
Nanifestation of the displeasure of Heaven at their presumptuous
daring in crossing such rivers, and penetrating to such a distance to


Page 59, Instance 1, Class: Text
saltrop.]
[nllustration: THE cALTROP.]
Alexander, having crossed the river, encanped for a day or two on the
banks, to'rest and refresh, and to rearrange his army. while here, the
soldiers were one night thrown into consternation by an eclipse of the
fon. Whenever an eclipse of the noon takes place, it iz, of course,
Wen the moon is full, 20 that the eclipse 4 always a sudden, and,
fnong an ignorant people, an unexpected waning of the orb in the
height of its splendor; and as such people know not the cause of the
Pherotenon, they are often extrenely terrified. Alexander's soldiers
ere throun inta consternation by the eclipse. They considered it the
Nanifestation of the displeasure of Heaven at their presumptuous
daring in crossing such rivers, and penetrating to such a distance to


Page 60, Instance 0, Class: Text
in fact, the men were predisposed to fear. Having wandered to @ vast
distance from hone, having passed over such mountains and deserts, and
ow, at last, having crossed a deep and dangerous river, and thrown
thenselves into the inmediate Vicinity of 2 foe ten tines as nuserous
as themselves, it was natural that they should feel sone aisgivings.
fd when, at night, inpresced with the sense of solemnity which night
alays imparts to Strange and novel scenes, they looked up to the
bright round soon, pleased with the expression of cheerfulness and
companionship which beams always in her light, to Find her suddenly
Naming, changing her fora, withdraving her tright beans, and looking
down upon then with a lurid and murky Light, it was not surprising
that they felt an emotion of terror. In fact, there ts always an
flenent of terrar in the emotion excited by looking upon an eclipse,
eich an instinctive feeling of the heart inspires. It invests the
Spectacle with a solenn grandeur. Tt holds the spectator, however
cultivated and refined, in silence while he gazes at it. It mingles
With 9 scientific appreciation of the vastness of the movenents and
fragnitudes by which the effect 1s produced, and while the one occupies
the intellect, the other inpresses the soul. The sind that has lost,
‘through its philosophy, the power of feeling this enotion of awe in
uch scenes, has sunk, not risen, Its possessor has made hinself
inferior, not superion, to the rest of his species, by having
paralyzed one of his susceptibilities of pleasure. To him an eclipse
Ss'only curious and wonderful; to others it is subline.
‘he soldiers of Alexander were extremely terrified. & great panic
spread throughout the encampment. Alexander hinself, instead of
attenpting to allay their fears by reasoning, or treating then as of
fo importance, innediately gave the subject his most serious
Sttention, He called together the soothsayers, and directed then to
Consult together, and let him know what this great phenonenon
portended. This sere committing of the subject to the attention of the
Soothsayers had a great effect anong al the soldiers of the aray. It
Calned then. It changed their agitation and terror into a feeling of
Suspense, in awaiting the answer of the soothsayers, which was far
ese painful and dangerous; and at Length, when the answer cane, it
allayed their ansiety and fear altogether. The soothsayers said that
he Sun was on Alexander's side, and the acon on that of the Persians,
fand that this sudden waning of her Light foreshadowed the defeat and
destruction which the Persians were about to undergo. the aray were
Satisfied with this decision, and were inspired with new confidence
and ardor. It is often idle to atteapt to oppase ignorance: and
absurdity by such feeble instruments as truth and reason, and the
Wisest managers of mankind have generally been most successful when
‘hein plan has been to counteract one folly by means of the influence
oF another.
Alexander's army consisted of about Fifty thousand men, with the
phalanx in the center. This aray moved along down the eastern bank of
fhe Tigris, the scouts pressing forward as far as possible in every
direction in front of the main aray, in order to get intelligence of
the foe, It 1s in this way that two great armies “feel” after each
other, as it were, Like insects creeping over the grouid, exploring
‘the way before then with their antenne... At Length, after three. days
advance, the scouts care in with intelligence of the enemy. Alexander
Pressed forward with a detacknent of his army to meet them. They
Proved to be, however, not the main body af Dariue's army, but only 2
Single corps’ of a thousand men, in advance of the rest. They retreated
as sAlexander approached. He, however, succeeded in capturing some
horsenen, uho gave the information that Darius had assembled his vast
forces on the plain of Arbela, and was waiting there in readiness to


Page 61, Instance 0, Class: Text
arrangements for depositing his baggage there. He refreshed the men,
examined and repaired their aras, and sade the arrangements For
battle, These operations consumed several days. At the end of that
tne, early one sorning, long before day, the cap was in motion, and
‘the Columns, armed and equipped for immediate contest, moved Foruard.
‘They expected to have reached the camp of Darius at daybreak, but the
distance was greater than they had supposed. At Length, however, the
Macedonians, in their march, cane upon the brow of = range of Mills,
From which they looked down’ upon nusberless and endless 1ines of
infantry and cavalry, and ranges after ranges of tents, which filled
‘the plain. Here the aay paused while Alexander exanined the Field,
studying for a long tine, and with great attention, the nusbers. and
Gisposition of the eneny” They were four miles distant still, but the
murmuring sounds of thelr voices and movenents cane to the ears of the
Macedonians through the calm autumnal air.

Alexander called the leading officers together, and held 2
consultation on the question whether to march down and attack the
Persians on the plain that night, or to wait till the next day.
Parsenio was in Favor of a night attack, in order to surprise the
enemy’ by coming upon thea 3t sn unexpected time. Sut Alexander said
ho. He was sure of victory. He had got his enesies all before him
‘hey were fully in his power. He would, therefore, take no advantage,
but would attack then fairly and in open day. Alexander had Fifty
thousand men the Persians were vardously estimated between five
hundred thousand and a million. There is something subline in the idea
ff such a pause, made by the Macedonian phalanx and its wings, on the
Slopes of the hi2ls, suspending its attack upon fen tines 185’ number,
to give the mighty mass of their enemies the chances of a fair and
equal contest

Alexander nade congratulatory addresses to his soldiers on the
occasion of their having now at last before then, what they had so
{ong toiled and labored to attain, the whole concentrated force of the
Persian enpire. they were now going to contend, not for single
Provinces and kingdeas, as heretofore, but for’general empire; and the
Wetory ahien they were about to achieve would place them on the
Sumit of human glory. In all that he said on the subject, the
Uunquestionable certainty of victory was assuned.

Alexander completed his arrangements, and then retined to rest. He
went to sleep--at least he appeared to’ do so. Early in the morning
Parnenio arose, suntoned the men to their posts, and arranged every
‘thing for the march. He then went £0 Alexander's tent. Alexander was
Still asleep. He auoke hin, and told him that all was ready. Parmenio
expressed surprise at his sleeping so quietly at a tine when such vast
issues were at stake. "You seen 25 calm,” said he, "as if you had had
‘the battle and gained the victory.” "I have done fo,” said Alexander.
“T'consider the whole work done when we have gained access to Darius
and his forces, and find hin ready to give us battle,”

Alexander soon appeared at the head of his troops. oF course this day
was one of the most Inportant ones of his life, and one of the
historians of the tine has preserved an account of his dress as he
Ment into battle. He wore a short tunic, girt close around him, and
ver it a linen breast-plate, strongly quilted. The belt by which the
tunic was held was embossed with Figures of beautiful worksanship.
{ints belt was a present to hin from some of the people of the
Conquered countries through which he had passed, and J¢ was very much
Sdnined, He hada helmet upon his head, of polished steel, with a neck
Plece, also of steel, ornamented with precious stones. Hi helmet was
Eurmounted with a white pune. His sword, which war a present to him
‘om the King of Cyprus, was very Light and slender, and of the mast


Page 62, Instance 0, Class: Text
perfect temper. He cerried, alas, © skisld and = lence, meds in the
best possible manner for use, not for display. Thus his dress
corresponded with the character of his action. It was sinple, compact,
and whatever of value it possessed consisted in those substantial
excellencies which would give the bearer the greatest efficiency on
‘the field of battle.

‘ihe Persians were accustomed to make use of elephants in these wars,
They also had chariots, with scythes placed at the axles, which they
were accustomed to drive anong their enemies and sow them down.
Alexander resorted to none of these contrivances. There was the
phalanx--the terrible phalanx--advaneing irressstibly either in one
body or in detachments, with columns of infantry and flying troops of
horsenen on the wings. Alexander relied simply on the strength, the
Courage, the energy, and the calm and steady, but resistless ardor of
his men, arranging then in simple combinations, and leading then
Forward directly to their work.

‘The Macedonians cut their way through the mighty mass of their enemies
with irresistible force. The elephants turned and fled. The Foot
Joldiers seized the horses of sone of the scythe-armed chardots and
ut the traces. In respect to others, they opened to the right and
eft and Let then pass through, when’ they were easily captured by the
imen in the rear. In the sean tine the phalanx pressed on, enjoying 2
{great advantage in the level nature of the ground. The Persian troops
Were broken in upon and driven avay wherever they were attacked. In a
word, before night the whole mighty mass was scattering every where in
Confusion, except some hundreds of thousands left trampled upon and
dead, of else writhing upon the ground, and groaning in their dying
fagonies. Darius hinself fled. Alexander pursued him with a troop of
horse as far as Arbela, which had been Darius's head-quarters, and
Nore he had deposited anense treasures, Darius had gone through and
fescaped when Alexander arrived at arbela, but the city and the
treasures fell into Alexander's hands.

Although Alexander had been so completely victorious over his enemies
fon the day of battle, and had maintained his ground against then with
Such invincible pover, he was, nevertheless, 2 few days afterward,
driven entirely OFF the Field, and completely avay fron the region
Were the battle had been fought. hhat the Living men, standing erect
4n anas, and full of martial vigor, could not do, was easily and
effectually accomplished by their dead bodies corrupting on the plain.
Sine corpses of three hundred thousand men, and an equal bulk of the
bodies of elephants and horses, was too ehormous a mass to be buried.
Te had to be abandoned; and the horrible effluvia and pestilence which
SE emitted drove all the inhabitants of the country avay. Alexander
tmarched his troops rapidly off the ground, Leaving, a: the direct,
result of the battle, a wide extent cf country depopulated and
desolate, with this vast mass of putrefaction and pestilence reigning
Sn awful silence and solitude in the midst of St

Alexander went to Babylon. The governor of the city prepared to
receive hin as a conqueror. The people case out in throngs to meet
him, and all the avenues of approach were crowded with spectators. 11
the city walls, too, were covered with men snd wanen, ‘astenbled £2
ltness the scene. As for Alexander Miaself, he was filled with pride
and pleasure at thus arriving at the full accomplishsent of his
earliest and long-cherished reans of glory.

‘he great store-house of the royal treasures of Persia was at Susa, 2
strong city east of Babylon. Susa was the winter residence of the
Persion kings, as Ecbatana, further north, anong the mountains, was
their sumer residence. There was a magnificent palace and a very
trong citadel at usa, and the treasures were kept in the citadel. rt
4s said that in tines of peace the Persian monarchs had been


Page 63, Instance 0, Class: Text
See eee re een ee ee ae ee eee cone ee
jars. The jars were afterward broken off from the gold, leaving the
ibullion in the form of the interior cf the Jars. sn enormous anount of
gold and silver, and of other treasures, had been this collected:
Alexander was auare of this depository before he advanced to meet
Darius, and, on the day of the battle of Arbela, as soon as the
ictory was’ decided, he sent an officer from the very field to sunton
Susa to surrender. they obeyed the summons, and Alexander, soon after
his great public entrance into Sabylon, marched to Susa, and took
possession of the vast stores of wealth accumulated there. The ancunt
Nas enorous, both in quantity and value, and the seizing of It was a
Very magnificent act of plunder. in fact, it is probable that
[Alexander's slaughter of the Persian army at Arbela, and subsequent
Spoliation of Susa, constitute, taken together, the ost gigantic
case of murder and’ robbery which was ever committed by man so that,
in performing these deeds, the great hero attained at last to the
glory of having perpetrated the grandest and most inposing of 11
hhunan cranes. That these deeds were really crimes there can be no
foube, when we consider thst Alexander did not pretend to have any
bother mative in this invasion than love of conquest, which is, im
other words, love of violence and plunder. they are’ only technically
Shielded fron being called crimes by the fact that the earth has no
Jaws and no tribunsls high enough £0 condemn such enormous burglaries
as that of one quarter of the globe breaking violently and murderousiy
4 upon and robbing the other.

Besides the treasures, Alexander found also at Susa a number of
‘trophies which had been brought by Xerxes. from Greece; for Xerxes had
invaded Greece sone hundred years before Alexander's day, and had
‘raught £0 Susa the spolls and the trophies of his victorses:
Alexander sent then all back to Greece again.

Fram Susa the conqueror saved on to Persepolis, the great Persian
capital. On nis aarch he had to pass through a'defile of the
fountains, The mountaineers had been accustoned to exact tribute here
ff all uno passed, having a sort of right, derived from ancient usage,
‘to the paysent of 2 toll. They sent to Alexander when they heard that
he wae approaching, and informed ha that ne could not pass with his,
aray without paying the customary toll. Alexander sent back word that
he would meet! then at the pass, and give then their cue.

‘They understood this, and prepared to defend the pass. Some Persian
‘troops joined then. They built walls and barricades across the narrow
passages. They collected great stones on the brinks of precipices, and
fn the declivities of the mountains, to roll down upen the heads of
Their enemies. By these and every other means they sttenpted to stop
Alexander's passage. Sut he had contrived to send detachments. around
by circuitous and precipitous paths, which even the mountaineers had
deened inpracticable, and thus attack his enenies suddenly and
lunexpectedly fron above their oun positions. As usual, his plan
Succeeded, The mountaineers were driven auay, and the conqueror
‘advanced tovard the great Persian capital.

[nllustration: ALEXANDER AT THE PASS OF USA.)


Page 64, Instance 0, Class: Text
Proposes to burn the Persian palace.--Conflagration of the
Palace, -Sublimity of the scene.--Oiymplas.--fer letters to
lexander.--sysiganbis.--Alexander's kindness to her---arius at
Ecbatana.--His speech to his army.--Conspiracy against Darius. -Bessus
and his confederates. -Advance of Alexander. -Retrest of Darsus.--The
Caspian Gates.--Pursuit of Darius.--Foraging parties.--The pursuit
continued.--Aiexander stops to rest his army.--Want. of
Naten.--Disregarded by Alexander.--The pursuit grows more
exciting.--Guides employed.--The Persians overtaken.--Hurder of
Dardus.=-Sufferings of Oardus.--Treachery of friends.--Dariue

Found. --Sutferings from thirst. -Darius calls for water.--The
ntenpreter.--Darius's message to Alexander. --A€fecting
Scene.--Alexander's grief at Oarius's death.-He sends the body

to sysiganbis.~-crossing the Oxus.--Capture of the traitor
Bessu.--Mutdiation of Sescus. Ae de sent to Sysiganbis,-Terrsble
unishnent of Bessus.

Alexander's march fron Susa to Persepolis was less 2 march than 2
‘eriunphal progress. He felt the pride and elation so naturally
resulting from success very strongly. The moderation and forbearance
Nich had characterized hin in his earlier years, gradually
Gisappeared as he becane great and powerful. He was intoxicated with
his success. He became haughty, vain, capricious, and cruel. as he
approached Persepolis, he conceived the idea that, a= this city was
‘the eapital and center of the Persian monarchy, andy az such, the
point from ahich had ensnated all the Persian hostility to Greece, he
‘owed At sone signal retribution. Accordingly, although the inhabitants
rade no opposition to his entrance, he marched in with the phalanx
Formed, and gave the soldiers liberty to kill and plunder a5 they
pleased.

‘here was another very striking instance of the capricious
recklessness now beginning to appear in Alexander's character, which
ecunred soon after he had taken possession of Persepolis. He Was
Biving a great banquet to his friends, the officers of the army, and
to Persians of distinction anong those who had subaitted to him. There
was, among other women at this banquet, a very beautiful and
Accomplished fenale naned Thais. Alexander made her his favorite and
Companion, though she was not his wife. Thats did all in her power £0
captivate and please Alexander during the feast by her vivacity, her
it, her adroit attentions to hin, and the display of her charms, and
at length, when he hinself, as welll as the other guests, were excited
‘th wine, she acked him to allow her to have the pleasure of going
herself and setting fire, with her own hands, to the great palace of
‘the Persian kings in the’ city. Thais uas a native of Attica in Greece,
a Kingdon of which Athens was the capital. Xerxes, uho had built the
great palace of Persepolis, had formerly invaded Greece and had burned
IAthene, and now Thais desired to burn his palace in Persepolis, £0
gratify her revenge, by aaking of its conflagration an evening
Spectacle to entertain the Macedonian party after their supper
Alexander agreed to the proposal, and the whole company moved forward.
Taking the torches from the banqueting halls, they sallied forth,
alarning the city with their shouts, and with the flashing oF the
Lights they bore. The plan of Thais was carried fully into effect,
every half-intoxicated guest assisting, by putting fire to the immense
pile wherever they could get access to it. They performed the
Barbarous deed with shouts of vengeance and exultation.

There is, however, something very solean and avful in a great
conflagration at night, and very few incendiaries can gaze upon the
fury of the lurid and frightful flawes which they have: caused to
ascend without sone misgivings and sone remorse. Alexander was sobered
by the grand and subline, but terrible spectacle. He was awed by 4
He repented. He ondered the fire to be extinguished; but St was too


Page 64, Instance 1, Class: Text
Propares to burn the Persian pelace.--Conflagration of the
Palace, -Sublimity of the scene.--Oiymplas.--fer letters to
lexander.--sysiganbis.--Alexander's kindness to her---arius at
Ecbatana.--His speech to his army.--Conspiracy against Darius. -Bessus
and his confederates. -Advance of Alexander. -Retrest of Darsus.--The
Caspian Gates.--Pursuit of Darius.--Foraging parties.--The pursuit
continued.--Aiexander stops to rest his army.--Want. of
Naten.--Disregarded by Alexander.--The pursuit grows more
exciting.--Guides employed.--The Persians overtaken.--Hurder of
Dardus.=-Sufferings of Oardus.--Treachery of friends.--Dariue

Found. --Sutferings from thirst. -Darius calls for water.--The
ntenpreter.--Darius's message to Alexander. --A€fecting
Scene.--Alexander's grief at Oarius's death.-He sends the body

to sysiganbis.~-crossing the Oxus.--Capture of the traitor
Bessu.--Mutdiation of Sescus. Ae de sent to Sysiganbis,-Terrsble
unishnent of Bessus.


Page 65, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Since been efraced, was cast upon Alexander's character and tame.
nd yet, notwithstanding these increasing proofs of pride and cruelty,
Mich were beginning to be developed, Alexander still preserved sone
of the early traits of character which had made him s0\ great a
Favorite in the consencenant of his career. He loved his sother, and
Sent her presents continually from the treasures which were Falling
all the tine into his possession. she was a woman of 2 proud,
nperious, and ungovernable character, and she made Artipater, whom
‘Alexander’ had left in conmand in Macedon, infinite trouble. she wanted
to exercise the powers of government herself, and was continually
urging this. Alexander would not comply with these wishes, but he paid
her personally every attention in hit power, and bore ail her
Anvectives and repreaches with great patience and good husor. At one
‘ne he received a long letter from Antipater, full of complaints
against her; but Alexander, after reading it, said that they were
heavy charges it wae true, but that a single one of his mother's tears
would outweigh ten thousand such accusations.

Olynpias used to write very frequently to Alexander, and in these
letters she would criticise and discuss his proceedings, and make
‘comments upon the characters and actione of his generals. Alexander
kept these letters very secret, never showing then to any one. One
day, however, when he was reading one of these letters, Hephestion,
‘the personal friend and companion who has been already’ several tines
nentioned, cane up, Ralf playfully, and began to look over Ris
Shoulder. ‘Alexander went on, allowing hin to read, and then, when the
letter uas finished he took the signet ring from his Finger’ and
pressed it upon Hephastion's Lips, @ signal for silence and secrecy,
Alexander was very kind to Sysiganbis, the mother of Oarius, and also
to Darius's children. He would not give these unhappy captives their
Liberty, but in every other respect he treated them with the greatest
possible kindness and consideration. He called Sysiganbis nother,
Aoaded her with presents--presents, it is true, which he had plundered
‘rom her son, but £0 which st was considered, in those days, that he
had acquired’ a just and perfect title. When he reached Susa, he
festablished Sysiganbis and the children there in great state. This had
been their usual residence in nost seasons of the year, when not at
Persepolis, so that here they were, as it were, at home. Ecbatana[F)
was, a2 has been already mentioned, further north, anong the
fountains. after the battle of Arbela, while Alexander marched to
Babylon and to Susa, Darius had fled to Ecbstana, and wae now there,
his family being thus at one of the royal palaces under the comand of
the conqueror, and he himself independent, but insecure, in the

ther. He had with him about forty thousand men, who still rensined
Faithful to his fallen Fortunes. imong these were several thousand
Greeks, whom he had collected in Asia Minor and other Grecian
Countries, and whom he had attached to his service by means oF pay.
[Footnote F: the modern Zspahan.

he called the officers of his army together, and explained to them the
deteraination that he had cone to in respect to his future movenents,
“A large part of those,” said he, “sho formerly Served as officers oF
ny goverment have abandoned me in ay adversity, and gone over to
‘Alexander's side. They have surrendered to him the towns, and
Citadels, and provinces which 7 intrusted to their fidelity. You alone
remain faithful and true. As for myself, I might yield to the
conqueror, and have him assign to me some province or Kingdon to
govern as his subordinate; but I will never submit fo such a
degradation. I can die in the struggle, but never will yield. 1 will
wear no crov which another puts upon ay brow, nor give up ay right to
veto over the waite of my oneettere till t gine Un Life th vow.


Page 66, Instance 0, Class: Text
saree with ap in this determination, let us act energetically upem it.
We'have it in our power to tersinate the injuries we are suffering, oF
@lse to avenge then.”
‘he army responded most cordially to this appeal. They were ready,
they said, to follow him wherever he should lead. ALL this. apparent
enthusiasm, however, was very delusive and unsubstantial. @ general
famed Sessus, conbining with sone other officers in the ara,
conceived the plan of seizing Darius and making him a prisoner, and
‘then taking conand of the aray himself. If Alexander should pursue
him, and be Likely to overtake and conguer him, he then thought that,
by giving up Darius as a prisoner, he could stipulate for liberty and
safety, and perhaps great rewards, both for hinself and for those who
acted with his. 2, on the other hand, they should succeed 4n
Sncreasing their oun foress so. as to make head ageinst Alexander, and
Finally to drive him away, then Sessus was to usurp the theane, and
dispose of Darius by assassinating hin, or imprisoning him for 1ife in
Sone renote and solitary eastle:
essus communicated his plans, very cautiously at First, to the
leading officers of the army. The Greek soldiers were not included in
‘the plot. They, however, heard and sau enough to lead thea to suspect
what was in preparation. They warned Darius, and urged hin to rely
Upon then sore than he had done; to make thew his body-guard; and to
pitch his tent in their part of the encanpnent. Gut Darius declined
hese proposals. He would not, he said, distrust and abandon his
Countrymen, who were his natural protectors, and put hinself in the
hands of strangers. He would not betray and decert his friends. in
anticipation of their deserting and betraying him
in the mean tine, a¢ Alexander advanced toward Ecbatana, Darius and
ints forces retreated from it toward the eastward, through the great
tract of country lying south of the Caspian Sea. There is a
ountainous region here, with a defile traversing 3, through which it
would be necessary for Darius to pass. This defile was called the
Caspian ates, [6] the nase referring zo racks on each side. The
arching of an army through a narrow and dangerous defile like this
aluays causes detention and delay, and Alexander hastened forward in
hopes to overtake Darius before he should reach it. He advanced with
Such speed that only the strongest and most robust of his aray could
Keep up. Thousands, worn out with exertion and toil, were left behind,
and many of the horses sank down by the road side, exhausted with heat
and fatigue, to die. Alexander pressed desperately on with all who
were able to follow,
[Footnote G: pyle caspiz_on the map, which means the Caspian Gates.
twas all in vain, however; it was too late when he anrived at the
ass. Darius had gone through with all his army. Alexander stopped to
Fest his men, and 0 allow tine for those behind to cone up. he then
Went on for a couple of days, when he encamped, in order to send out
Foraging parties--that 1s to’ say, small detachments, dispatched to
explore the surrounding country in search of grain and other food for
‘the horses. Food for the horses of an army Being too bulky to be
Enansported far, has £0 be collected day by day from the neighborhood
of the Line of march:
nile halting for these foraging parties to return, a Persian nobleman
Cane into the camp, and informed Alexander that Darius and the Forces
Accompanying him were encanped about to days' march in advance, but
‘that Bessus was in command--the conspiracy having been successful, and
Darius having been deposed and made a prisoner. The Greeks, who had
aahered to their Fidelity, Finding that all the army were Combined
against then, and that they were not strong enaugh to resist, had
abandoned the Persian camp, and had retired to the mountains, where


Page 67, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander determined to set forward imediately in pursuit of Bessus
fand his prisoner. He did not wait for the return of the foraging
parties. He selected the ablest and nost active, both of foot soldiers
find horsemen, ordered then to take two days" provisions, and then set
Forth with them that very evening. The party pressed on’all that
hight, and the next day till noon, they halved till evening, and then
Set forth again. Very early the next morning they arrived at the
fencanpnent nich the Persian nobleman had described. They found the
Fresains of the canp-fires, and all the marks usually left upon a spot
Nich has been used az the bivouac of an army. The army itself,
however, was gone:

‘he pursuers were now too much fatigued to go any further without
rests Alexander renained here, accordingly, through the day, to give
his men and nis horses refreshment and repose. That night they set
forward again, and the next day at noon they arrived 3t another
fencanpnent of the Persians, which they had left scarcely twenty-four
hours before. The officers of Alexander's arny were excited and
aninated in the highest degree, 25 they found theaselves thus drawing
So near to the great object of their pursuit. They were ready for any
exertions, any privation and fatigue, any measures, however
extraordinary, £0 accomplish their end

Alexander inquired of the inhabitants of the place whether there were
rot some shorter road than the one along which the eneny were moving.
‘here was one cross-road, but it led through 2 desolate and desert
tract of land, destitute of water. In the march of an anny, as the men
fare always heavily loaded with arms and provisions, and water can not
be carried, it 1s always considered essential to choose routes which
in] furnish supplies of water by the way. Alexander, however,
disregarded this consideration here, and prepared at once to push into
tthe eross-road with a shall detachment, He had been now two years
advancing from Macedon into the heart of Asia, always in quest of
Darius as his great opponent and enemy. He had conquered hs arsies,
taken his cities, plundered his palaces, and made hinself master of
his whole realm. still, so long 95 Darius hinself renained at Liberty
fnd in the field, no victories could be considered ae complete. To
Capture Darius nineelf would be the last and crowning act of his
conquest. He had now been pursuing him for eighteen hundred miles,
aavancing slowly fran province to province, and fron kingdon to
‘Kingdom. During all this tine the strength of his flying foe had been
acting away. His armies had been broken up, his courage and hope had
{gradually failed, while the animation and hope of the pursuer had been
fathering Fresh and increasing strength from his successes, and were
Sxcited to wild enthusiasm now, as the hour for the final Consummation
of all his desires seened to be drawing nigh.

Guides were ordered to be furnished by the inhabitants, to show the
fdetachnent the way across the solitary and desert couneey.. the
fdetachnent was to consist of horsemen entirely, that they might
advance with the utmost colerity. To get as efficient a corps 25
possible, Alexander dismounted Five hundred of the cavalry, and gave
Chein horses to five hundeed men--officers and others--selacted for
‘hein strength and courage from among the foot soldiers. All were
anbitious of being designated for this service. Besides the honor of
being so selected, there was an intense excitenent, as usual toward
the close of a chase, to arrive at the end

This body of horsenen were ready to set out in the evening. Alexander
took the command, and, following the guides, they trotted ofF in the
firection which the guides indicated. They traveled all night. Hnen
‘the day denned, they saw, fron an elevation to which they had
attained, the body of the Persian troops aoving at a short distance


Page 68, Instance 0, Class: Text
together in great confusion and disorder.
‘As soon as Bessus and his company found that their pursuers were close
lupan them, they attempted st first to hurry forward, in the vain hope
of still effecting their escape. Darius was in a chariot. They urged
his chariot on, but it moved heavily. Then they concluded to” abandon
At, and they called upon Darius to mount a horse and ride off with
then, leaving the rest of the army and the baggage to its fate. But
Darius refused. He said he nould rather trust himeelf in the hands of
Alexander than in those of such traitors as they. Rendered desperate
by their situation, and exasperated by this reply, Sessus and his,
confederates thrust their spears into Oarius's bady, as he sat in his
Chariot, and then galloped away. They divided into different parties,
teach taking a different rood. Their object in doing this wae to
Sncrease their chances of escape by confusing Alevander in his plans
for pursuing then. ‘tlexander pressed on toward the ground which the
feneny were abandoning, and sent off separate detachments after the
Various divisione of the flying army.

4n the mean tine Darius remained in his chariot wounded and bleeding.
He was worn out and exhausted, both in body and mind, by his
Complicated sufferings and sorrous. His Kingdon lost; his’ family in
Captivity; his beloved wife in the grave, where the sorrows and
sufferings of separation from her husband had borne her his cities
Sacked; his palaces and treasures plundered; and now he hinself, in
‘the last hour of his extremity, abandoned and betrayed by all in whos
he had placed his confidence and trust, his heart sunk within him in
despair. At such a tine the soul turns from traitorous friends to an
‘open foe with something like s feeling of confadence and attachaent,
Darius's exasperation against Bessus was so intense, that his,
hostility to Alexander becane a species of friendship in comparison
Ne felt that Alexander was a sovereign Like hinself, and would have
Sone. sympathy and fellow-feeling for'a sovereign's misfortunes. He
thought, too, of his mother, his wife, and his children, and the
kindness with which Alexander had treated them went to his heart. He
Jay there, accordingly, faint and bleeding in his chariot, and Looking
fon the coning of Alexander as for that of a protector and friend, the
only one to whom he could now look for any relief in the extremity of
his distress,

‘he Macedonians searched about in various places, thinking it possible
that in the sudden dispersion of the enemy Oardus might have been left
behind, At last the chariot in which he was lying wae found, Darius
was in'it, pierced with spears. The floor of the chariot was covered
With blood." They raised hima iittle, and he spoke. He called for

Wen wounded and dying on the field of battle are tonmented always with
an insatiable and intolerable thirst, the manifestations of which
Constitute one of the greatest horrors of the scene. They cry
piteously to all who pass to bring then water, or eise to kill then.
‘hey crawl along the ground to get at the canteens of their dead
companions, in hopes £0 find, renaining in thes, sone drops to drink;
land if there is a Little brosk meandering through the battle-Field,
Hts bed gets Filled and choked up with the bodies of those who cravled
‘there, in their agony, to quench their horrible thirst, and die.
Darius was suffering this thirst. It bore down and silenced, for the
tine, every other suffering, so that his first ery, when his enenies
cane’ around him with shouts of exultation, was not for his life, not
for mercy, not for relief from the pain and anguish of his wounds--he
begged then to give hin sone water.

fe spoke through an interpreter. The interpreter was a Persian


Page 69, Instance 0, Class: Text
vc, new acdnn Eee bie mapedcee thou het heeant hin with thee me
sone occasion for his services, they had brought him with them now,
and it was through him that Darius called for water. A Macedonian
Soldier went snmediately to get some, Others hurried away in search of
Alexander, to bring hin to the spot where the great object of his
hostility, and of his long and protracted pursuit, was dying.

Darius received the drink. He then said that he was extremely glad
‘that they had an interpreter with them, who could understand his, and
bear his message to Alexander. He had been afraid that he should have
had to die sithout being able to communicate what he had to say. "Tell
Alexander,” said he, then, "that 1 feel under the strongest
obligations to him which i can now never repay, for his kindness to ay
wife, my mother, and my children. He not only spared their lives, but
rested then with the greatest. consideration and care, and did ail in
his power to make then happy. The last feeling in wy heart is,
gratitude to hin for these favors. I hope now that he will. go on
Prosperously, and finish his conquests a5 triumphantly as he has begun
hem." He would have made one last request, he added, iF he had
thought it necessary, and that was, that Alexander would pursue the
traitor Sessus, and avenge the murder he had committed; but he was
Sure that Alexander would do this of his awn accord, as the pundsheent
ff such treachery waz an object of comon interest for every king.
Darius then took Polystratus, the Macedonian who had brought hin the
water, by the hand, Saying, ‘Give Alexander thy hand as 1 now give
thee ing; Jt 1s the pledge of my gratitude and affection.”

Darius was too weak to say much more. They gathered around him,
endeavoring to sustain his Strength until Alexander should arrive; but
Stiwas all in vain. He sank gradually, and soon ceased to breathe,
‘Alexander cane up @ few ainutes afterall was over. He was at First
Shocked at the spectacle before him, and then overuhelned with grief.
He wept bitterly. Some compunctions cf conscience may have visited his
heart: at seeing thus before hin the ruin he had made- Darius had never
{injured him or done him any wrong, and yet here he lay, hunted to
death by a persevering and relentiess hostility, for which his
Conqueror had no excuse but his innate love of dominion over his
Fellow-nen. Alexander spread his onn military cloak over the dead
body. He immediately made arcangenents for having the body exbalned,
and then sent it to Susa, for Sysigambis, ina very costly coffin, and
With a procession of royal aagnificence. He sent it to her that she
Iright have the satisfaction of seeing it deposited in the toabs of the
Persian kings. what a present! The killer of a son sending the dead
body, in a splendid coffin, to the acther, as a token of respectful
regard!

Alexander pressed on to the northward and eastward in pursutt of
fessus, who had coon collected the scattered remains of his army, and
wae doing his utaost £0 get into a posture of defense, He did not,
however, overtake him till he had crossed the Oxus, 9 large river
nich will be found upon the map, Flowing to the northward. and
westward into the Caspian Sea, He had great difficulty in crossing
this river, a5 it was too deep to be forded, and the banks and botton
were so sandy and yielding that he could not make the Foundations of
bridges stand. He accordingly nade floats and rafts, which were
Supported by Skins made buoyant by inflation, or by being stuffed with
Straw and hay. After getting his ary, which had been in the wean tine
greatly re-enforced and strengthened, across this river, he soved on.
‘ine generais under Bessus, Finding all hope of escape Failing then,
resolved on betraying hia as he had betrayed his commander. They sent
word to Alexander that if he would send forward a small. force where
They should indicate, they would give up Becaus to his hands.
Alexander did so, intrusting the coumand to an officer naned Ptoleny.
Ptolemy found Setsus in a saall walled town whither he had fled for


Page 70, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander at the suamit of his anbition.--Sod changes.--Alexander
becones dissipated. --His officers became estranged. character oF
Parmenio.--iie services to Alexander. -Parmenio's son, Philotas.--tis
dissolute character.--Conspiracies. Plot of Oyanus.--Oynnus destroys
hinself.--philotas suspected.--The council of officers. -Philotas,
Accused. -Arrest of Philotas.—-The body of Dymnus.--tlexander’s
Address to the army.--Philotae brought to trial.--Defense of
Pailotas.--He is put to the torture.--Confession of Philotas.--He

4s stoned to death,--Paraenio condesned to death.--Mission of
Poydanas.--Precautions.--Srutal murder of Parsenio.--Story of
Clitues--He saver Alexander's 1ife.--Services of Clitus.--Occurrences
at the banquet.--CLitus reproaches Alexander. --Alexander's
rage.--Alexander assassinates Clitus.--his remorse.

Alexander was now twenty-six years of age. He had accomplished fully
‘the great objects which had been the aim of his asbition. Darius was
dead, and he was hinself the undisputed master of all western Asis.
His Wealth was almost boundless. is power was Suprese over what was,
An his view, the uhole known world. Sut, during the process of rising
to this ascendency, his character was sadly changed. He lost the
Simplicity, the tenperance, the moderation, and the sense of justice
eich characterized his eafly years. He adepted the dress and the
Jonundous manners of the Persians. lie Lived in the palaces of the
Persian kings, imitating all their state and splendor. He became very


Page 70, Instance 1, Class: Text
brat Bocce ae ae hie Ademmen). and acum frm npdame The wren swe
‘that Bessus was at his disposal, and asked for orders. The answer was,
“put a rope around his neck and’ send him to me.”
linen the wretched prisoner was brought into Alexander's presence,
[Alexander demanded of his how he could have been so base as to have
Seized, bound, and at last aurdered his kinsnan and benefactor. Tt is
2 curious instance in proof of the perwanence and stability of the
great characteristics of hutan nature, through all the changes of
Elvilization and Lapses of tine, that Sessus gave the sane answer that
Wrong-doers almost always give when brought to account for their
Nonge, fic 1aid the fault upon his accomplices and friends. Zt was not
his act, it was theirs.
Alexander ordered him to be publicly scourged; then he caused his face
to be mutilated in a manner customary in those days, when a tyrant
wished to stamp upon his victin a perpetual aark of infamy. In this
Condition, and with'a mind in an agony of suspense and fear at the
Thought of worse tortures which he knew were to cone, Alexander sent
hin as 2 second present to Sysiganbis, to be dealt with, at Susay 25
her revenge might direct, she inflicted upon him the mast extrenc
tortures, and finally, when satiated with the pleasure of seeing him
suffer, the story is that they chose four very elastic trees, growing
at a Little distance from each other, and bent down the tops of them
toward the central point between then. They fastened the exhausted
and dying Bessus to these trees, one Linb of his body to each, and
then releasing the stens from their confinement, they flex upward,
tearing the body asunder, each holding its ovn dissevered portion, 3¢
Af in triuapn, far over the heads of the multitude assembled to
witness the spectacle.


Page 70, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘Alexander demanded of him how he could have been so base as to have
Seized, bound, and at last aurdered his kinsnan and benefactor. Tt is
2 curious instance in proof of the perwanence and stability of the
great characteristics of hutan nature, through all the changes of
Elvilization and Lapses of tine, that Sessus gave the sane answer that
Wrong-doers almost always give when brought to account for their
Nonge, fic 1aid the fault upon his accomplices and friends. Zt was not
his act, it was theirs.

Alexander ordered him to be publicly scourged; then he caused his face
to be mutilated in a manner customary in those days, when a tyrant
wished to stamp upon his victin a perpetual aark of infamy. In this
Condition, and with'a mind in an agony of suspense and fear at the
Thought of worse tortures which he knew were to cone, Alexander sent
hin as 2 second present to Sysiganbis, to be dealt with, at Susay 25
her revenge might direct, she inflicted upon him the mast extrenc
tortures, and finally, when satiated with the pleasure of seeing him
suffer, the story is that they chose four very elastic trees, growing
at a Little distance from each other, and bent down the tops of them
toward the central point between then. They fastened the exhausted
and dying Bessus to these trees, one Linb of his body to each, and
then releasing the stens from their confinement, they flex upward,
tearing the body asunder, each holding its ovn dissevered portion, 3¢
Af in triuapn, far over the heads of the multitude assembled to
witness the spectacle.

Alexander at the suamit of his anbition.--Sod changes.--Alexander
becones dissipated. --His officers became estranged. character oF
Parmenio.--iie services to Alexander. -Parmenio's son, Philotas.--tis
dissolute character.--Conspiracies. Plot of Oyanus.--Oynnus destroys
hinself.--philotas suspected.--The council of officers. -Philotas,
Accused. -Arrest of Philotas.—-The body of Dymnus.--tlexander’s
Address to the army.--Philotae brought to trial.--Defense of
Pailotas.--He is put to the torture.--Confession of Philotas.--He

4s stoned to death,--Paraenio condesned to death.--Mission of
Poydanas.--Precautions.--Srutal murder of Parsenio.--Story of
Clitues--He saver Alexander's 1ife.--Services of Clitus.--Occurrences
at the banquet.--CLitus reproaches Alexander. --Alexander's
rage.--Alexander assassinates Clitus.--his remorse.

Alexander was now twenty-six years of age. He had accomplished fully
‘the great objects which had been the aim of his asbition. Darius was
dead, and he was hinself the undisputed master of all western Asis.
His Wealth was almost boundless. is power was Suprese over what was,
An his view, the uhole known world. Sut, during the process of rising
to this ascendency, his character was sadly changed. He lost the
Simplicity, the tenperance, the moderation, and the sense of justice
eich characterized his eafly years. He adepted the dress and the
Juxurious manners of the Persians. tie lived in the palaces of the


Page 71, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Fond of convivial entertainments and or wine, and often drank to
excess. He provided hinself a seragiio of three hundred and sixty
young females, in whose conpany he spent his tine, giving hiasel? up
to every form of effeninacy and dissipation. In a'word, Re was no
Aonger the sane san. The decision, the energy of character, the steady
pursuit of great ends by prudence, forethought, patient effort, and
Felf-denialy all disappeared; nothing now seened to interest hin but
banquets, carousals, parties of pleasure, and whole days and nights
spent in dissipation and vice.
his state of things was a great cause of mortification and chagrin to
the officers of his anny. Many of then were older than hiaself, and
better able to resist these teaptations to luxury, effeminacy, and
vice. They therefore remained firm in their orgginal sinplicity and
Jntegrity, and after sone respectful but ineffectual resonstrances,
‘they stood aloof, alienated from their comander in heart, and
condenning very Strongly, anong theaselves, his wickedness and folly.
fon the other hand, any of the _younger_ officers followed Alexander's
example, and became as vain, as irregular, and as fond of vicious
indulgence as he. ut then, though they joined him in his pleasures,
‘there was no strong bond of union between him and then. The tie which
binds mere companions in pleasure together is always very slight and
frail. "Thus Alexander gradually lost the confidence and affection of
his old friends, and gained no new ones. His officers either
disapproved nis’ conduct, and were distant and cold, or else joined hin
in his dissipation and vice, without feeling any réal respect for his
character, or being bound to him by any principle of Fidelity.
Parmenio and his son Philotas were, respectively, striking exanples of
‘these two kinds of character. Parsenio was an old general, now
considerably advanced in life, He had served, az has already been
Stated, under Philip, Alexander's father, and had acquired great
experience and great fane before Alexander succeeded to. the. thrane.
During the whole of Alexander's career Parmenio had been his principal
Lleutenant general, and he had always placed his greatest reliance
Upon him in all trying emergencies. He was cool, calm, intrepid,
Sagacious, He held Alexander back fron many rach enterprises, and was
‘the efficient means of his accomplishing acst of his plans. it is the
custon anong all nations to give kings the glory of all that is
feffected by their generals and officers} and the writers of those days
ould, of course, in narrating the exploits of the Macedonian army,
fxaggerate the share which Alexander had in their performances, and
Underrate those of Parnento, ut in wadern tines, many inpartisl
readers, in reviewing calmly these events, think that there is reason
{to doubt whether Alexander, If he had set out on his great expedition
without Parwenio, would have succeeded at all
Pailotas was the son of Paruenio, but he was of 2 very different
Character, The difference was one which iz very often, in all ages of
he world, to be observed between those whe -inherse. greatness and
‘those who’ acquire it for thencelves. We see the sane analogy reigning
fat the present day, when the sons of the wealthy, who are -born_ to
Fortune, substitute pride, and arrogance, and vicious self-indulgence
and waste for the modesty, and prudence, ‘and virtue of their sires, by
feans of which the fortuné was acquired. Philotas was proud, boastful,
extravagant, and addicted, like Alexander his aaster, to every species
of indulgence and dissipation. He was universally hated. His father,
fut of patience with his haughty airs, his boastings, and his pomp and
parade, advised him, one day, to ‘make hinsel# less.* But Pareenio's
Prudent advice to his son was throun away. Philotas spoke of hinselt
Ss Alexander's great reliance. "what would Philip have been or have
fone," said he, "hithout my father Parwenio? and what would Alexander
have’ been or have done, without me2" These things were reported £0
iewandes, and thus the ind of each was filled with suspicion, fear,


Page 72, Instance 0, Class: Text
and harred toward the orner.
Courts and camps are always the scenes of conspiracy and treason, and
Alexander was continually hearing of conspiracies and plots foraed
against him. The strong Sentiment of love and devotion with which he
Snspired ali around him at the conmencenent of his career, was now
gone, and his generals and officers were continually planning schemes
fo depose him fron the power which he seeaed no longer to have the
energy to wield; or, at least, Alexander was continually suspecting
hat such plans were foraed, and he was kept in a continual state of
Uuneasiness' and anxiety in discovering and punishing then.
se last a conspiracy occurred in which Philotas was implicated.
‘Alexander was inforted one day that a plot had been forwed to. depose
fand destroy him that Philotas had been made acquainted with st by 3
Friend of Alexander's, in onder that he might sake st known to the
king; that he had neglected to do so, thus making it probable that he
was himself ‘in league with the conspirators. Alexander vas informed
that the leader and originator of this conspiracy was one of his,
generals naned oymnus.
He iediately sent an officer to Dyanus to suason him into his
Presence. Dyanus appeared to be struck with consternation at this
Suamons. Instead of obeying it, he drew his sword, thrust it into his
‘own heart, and fell dead upon the ground.
‘Alexander then sent for Philotas, and asked hin if it was indeed true
‘that he had been informed of this conspiracy, and had neglected to
rake £¢ know,
Phélotas replied that he had been told that such a plot was forsed,
but that he did not believe it; that such stories were continually
invented by the malice of evil-disposed men, and that he had not
considered the report which cane to his ears as worthy of any
attention. He was, however, now convinced, by the terror which Dyanus
had manifested, and by his suicide, that all was true, and he asked
Alexander's pardon for not having taken immediate measures for
communicating promptly the information he had received.
Alexander gave him his hand, said that he was convinced that he was
innocent, and had acted as he did fron disbelief in the existence of
the conspiracy, and not from any guilty participation in it. So
Pailotas went aay to his tent.
Alexander, however, did not drop the subject here. He called a council
of his ablest and best friends and advisers, consisting of the
Principal officers of his army, and laid the facts before then. They
Cane toa different conclusion from his in respect 0 the guilt of
Pailotas. They believed hin inplicated in the crime, and denanded his
trial. Teial an such case, in those days, meant putting the accused
to the torture, with 2 view of forcing hia to confess his guilt.
Alexander yielded to this proposal. Perhaps he had secretly instigated
At. The advisers of kings snd conquerors, in such circunstances as
this, generally have the sagacity to discover what advice will be
agrecable. At all events, Alexander folloved the advice of his
Counselors, and sade arrangements for arresting Philotas on that very
evening.
‘hese circumstances occurred at a tine when the army was preparing For
a march, the various generals lodging in tents pitched for the
purpose. Alexander placed extra guards in various parts of the
fencanprent, a5 if to impress the whole army with a sense of the
Importance’ and solemity of the occasion. Me then sent officers to the
‘tent of Philotas, late at night, to arrest him. The officers found


Page 73, Instance 0, Class: Text
errand. Philotas arose, and obeyed the suamons, dejected and
Gistressed, avare, apparently, that his destruction was iapending.
‘The next morning Alexander called together a large assenbly,
Consisting of the principal and most important portions of the army,
{to the number of several thousands. They cane together with an air of
Anpressive solemity, expecting, from the preliminary preparations,
‘that business of very solemn monent was to come before thes, though
‘they knew not what Ie was.

‘These impressions of ave and solemnity were very much increased by the
spectacle which first met the eyes of the assembly after they were
Convened. This spectacle was that of the dead body oF Oymnus, bloody
Snd ghastly, which Alexander ordered ta be brought in and exposed to
View. ‘The death of Dymus had been Kept 2 secret, <0 that the
appearance of his body was an unexpected as well as a shocking sight
hen the First feeling of surprise and wonder had a little subsided,
Alexander explained to the assembly the nature of the conspiracy, and
‘the elreunstances connected with the self-execution of one of the
guilty participators in it. The spectacle of the body, and the
Statenent of the king, produced a scene of great and universal
excitement. in the assembly, and this excitement was raised to the
highest piten by the announcenent which Alexander now mage, that. he
had reason to believe that Philotas and his father Parmenio, officers
wo had enjoyed his highest favor, and in whom he had placed the most
Unbounded confidence, were the authors and originators of the whole
esign

He then ordered Philotas to be brought in. He cane guarded as a
criminal, with his hands tied behind hin, and his head covered with 2
Coarse cloth. He was in a state of great dejection and despondency. Tt
4s true that he was brought forward for trial, but he knew very well
‘that trial meant torture, and that there was ho hope for hin as to the
result. Alexander said that he would leave the accused to be dealt
with by the asseably, and withdrew.

‘he authorities of the army, who now had the proud and domineering
spirit unich had so long excited their hatred and envy completely in
thei poner, Listened for a tine to what Philotas had co say in nis
fun justification. he showed that there was no evidence whatever
Sgninet hin, and appealed to their sense of Justice not to. condemn hin
fon nere vague surmises. in reply, they decided to put hin to the
torture. There was no evidence, it was true, and they wished,
accondingly, to supply its place by his own'confession, extorted by
pain. of course, his most inveterate and implacable enewies vere
Sppointed to conduct the operation. They put Philotas upon the rack.
‘he rack is an instrunent oF wheels and pulleys, into which the victim
4s placed, and his Linbs and tendons are stretched by St in a manner
whieh produces most excruciating pain.

Pailotas bore the beginning of his torture with great resolution and
Fortitude. He made no complaint, he uttered no cry: this was the
‘Hgnal to his executioners to increase the tension and the agony. OF
Course, in such a trial as this, there was no question of guilt or
Innocence at issue. The only question was, which could stand out the
longest, nis enemies in witnessing horrible sufferings, or he hinself
Sn'enduring then. In thiz contest the unhappy Philotas was vanquished
fat lact. He begged then to release him fram the rack, saying he would
Confess whatever they required, on condition of being allowed to die
in peace.

‘They accordingly released him, and, in answer to their questions, he
confessed that he himself and his father were involved in the plot. He
eee eee eee eee eee eeeeeee on eae pes


Page 74, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘the conspiracy, and to the guilt of various individuals whom those
‘that managed the torture had suspected, or who, at any rate, they
‘ished to have condemned. The answers Of Philotas to all these
questions were written down, and he was hinself sentenced to be
Stoned. The sentence was put in execution without any delay.

During all this tine Paraanio was in Media, in comand of a very
lnportant part of Alexander's aray. It was’ decreed that he must die;
but sone careful management waz necessary to secure his execution
ile he was.at so great a distance, and at the head of so great 2
Force. The affair had to be conducted with grest secrecy a well 35
Gispatch. the plan adopted was as Follows:

‘here was a certain man, naned Polydanas, who was regarded a5
Parmenio’s particular friend. Polydanas was commissioned to go to
Nedia and see the execution performed. He was selected, because it
was supposed that if any enemy, or a stranger, had been sent, Parnenio
ould have received hin with suspicion or at east uith caution, and
Kept himself on his guard. They gave Polydanas several letters to
Parmenio, as if from his friends, and to one of then they attached the
seal of his son Philotas, the sore completely to deceive the unhappy
Father. Polydanas was eleven days on his journey into Media. He hed
letters to Cleander, the governor of the province of Media, which
contained the king's warrant for Parsenio's execution. He arrived at
‘the house of Cleander in the night. He delivered his letters, and they
together concerted the plans for carrying the execution into effect,
‘After having taken all the precautions necessary, Polydanas went, with
any attendants accompanying him, to the quarters of Parmento. The old
general, for he was at this tine eighty years of age, was walking in
his grounds. Polydanas being aduitted, ran up to accost him, with
great appearance of cordiality and friendship. He delivered to him his
letters, and Parsenio read then. He seamed mich pleased with their
contents, especially with the ane which had been written in the name
of his son. fe had no means of detecting the isposture, for 3t wae
Very customary in those days for letters to be uritten by secretaries,
fand to be authenticated solely by the sel

Parmenio was auch pleased to get good tidings fron Alexander, and from
his son, and began conversing upon the contents of the letters, when
Polydanas, watching his opportunity, drew forth » dagger which he had
concealed upon his person, and plunged it into Parsenio’s side. He
Grew it forth immediately’ and struck it at his throat. The attendants
rushed on at this signal, and thrust their swords again and again into
‘the fallen body until it’ ceased to breathe.

‘ihe death of Parsenio and of his son in this violent manner, when,
toa, there was 20 Little evidence of their guilt, made 2 very general
and a very unfavorable iapression in respect to Alexander and not
Jong. afterward another case occurred, in some respects still more
painful, a 1¢ evinced still more strikingly that the mind of
Alexander, which had been in his earlier days filled with such noble
and lofty sentiments of justice and generosity, was gradually getting
{to be under the suprene dominion of Selfish and ungovernable passions:
St wae the case of clitus,

Clitus was a very celebrated general of Alexander's army, and a great
Favorite with the king. He had, in fact, on one occasion’ saved
Alexander's Life, It was at the battle of the Geanicus. Alexander had
exposed hiaself in the thickest of the combat, and wae surrounded by
fenenies. The sword of one of then was actually raised over his head,
Sind would have fallen and killed hia on the spot, if Clitus had nat
Fushed forward and cut the aan down just at the instant when he was
Sout striking the blow. Such acts of Fidelity and courage. ae this had
vison Alowantur ureat confidence in Clitus. te henbened chaetly after,


Page 75, Instance 0, Class: Text
provinces of the empire resigned his post. Alexander appointed Clitus
fo Fill the vacancy.

‘The evening before his departure to take charge of his governsent,
Alexander invited him to 3 banquet, nade, partly at least, in honor of
his elevation. Clitus and the other guests assembled. They drank wine,
a: usual, nith great freedom. Alexander becane excited, and began to
Speak, as he was now often accustomed to do, boastingly of his oun
exploits, and to disparage those of his father Philip in comparison:
Men half intoxicated are very prone to quarrel, and not the less so
for being excellent friends when sober. Clitus had served under
Pnilip. He wa5 now an old man, and, like other old men, was very
tenacious of the glory that belonged to the exploits of his youth. He
war very restless and uneasy st hearing Alexander clain for hinself
the merit of his father Philip's victory at Charonea, and began to
frurmur something £0 those who sat next to him about kings claiming and
getting a great deal of glory which did not belong to thea.

Alexander asked what t was that Clitus said. No one replied, clitus,
however, went on talking, speaking ore and sore audibly as he became
gradually more and nore excited. He praised the character of Philip,
nd applauded his military exploits, saying that they were far
Superior to any of the enterprises of their day. The different
Parties at the table took up the subject, and began to dispute, the
1d men taking the part of Philip and former days, and the: younger
‘defending Alexander, Clitue became more and wore excited. He praised
Parmenio, who Nad been Philip's greatest general, and began to impugn
the justice of his late condemnation and death,

Alexander retorted and Clitus, rising from his seat, and losing now
all self-conmand, reproached him with severe and bitter words. "Here
4s the hand," said he, extending his ana, "that saved your life at the
battle of the Granicus, and the fate of Parmenio shows what sort of
gratitude and what rewards faithful senvante are to expect at your
hands." Alexander, burning with rage, commanded Clitus to leave the
table, Clitus obeyed, saying, as he moved auay, "We is right not to
bear Freeborn wen at his table uho can only teil him the truth. He is
right. It is Fitting for hin to pass his 1ife anong barbarians’ and
Slaves, who will be proud to pay their adoration to his Persian girdle
and his Splendid robe.”

Alexander seized javelin to hurl at Clitue's head. The guests rose
in confusion, and with many outerdes pressed around hin. Sone seized
‘Alexander's are, sone began to hurry CLitus out of the room, and some
were engaged in’ loudly criminating and threatening each other. They
fot CLitus out of the apartaent, But as soon a5 he was in the hall he
broke away from thes, returned by another door, and began to renew his
insults to Alexander” The king hurled his Javelin and struck Clitus
down, saying, at the sane tine, "Go, then, and join Philip and
Parnenia." The conpany rushed to the rescue of the unhappy man, but
st uae too late, He died alsost tnnediately.

Alexander, as soon as he cane to hinself was overhelmed with renorse
and despair. He aourned bitterly, for many days, the death of his
fong-tried and faithful friend, and execrated the intoxication and
passion, on nis part, which had caused it, He could not, however,
Festore’Clitus to Life, nor renove from his oun character ‘the
Sndelible stains which such deeds necessarily fixed upon St.


Page 76, Instance 0, Class: Text
army refuses to go further.--Alexander's disappointment. --Alexander
Pecolves to return.--He is wounded 4n an assavlt.--Alexanders
excesses. -He abandons his old friends. -Entrance into

Babylon. -nagnificent spectacle.--The astrologers.--Study of the
Stars.--karning of the astrologers. -Alexander's perplexity.--death
of Hephestion.--Alexander's melancholy.--Funeral honors to
Hephastion.--A stupendous project.--Alexander’'s depression.--Magnificent
Plans.--& prolonged carousal.--Alexander's excesses.--Alexander's last
Sickness.-rHis dying words.--Alexander’s death.--Alexander” and
Mashington.--Calanitous results which followed Alexander's
death.--storay debates.--Aridaus appointed king.--eFfects of the

ews of Alexander's death.--Death of Sysiganbis.—-Rejoicings at
Ithens.--Denosthenes.--2oy of the Athenians.--Phacion.--Heasures of
‘the Athenians.--Teiumphant return of Denosthenes.--Grand reception of
Desosthenes.- Preparations For the funerai.--Destination of Alexander's
body.--A funeral on a grand scale.--The funeral car.--Its construction
and magnitude.--Ornanents and basso relievos.--Colunn of aules.--crowds
of spectators.--the body deposited at Alexandria.--Alexander's true
character. conclusion.

After the events narrated én the last chapter, Alexander continued,
for two or three years, his expeditions and conquests in Asia, and in
‘the course of then he wet with a great variety of adventures which can
not be here particularly described. He penetrated into India as far as
‘the banks of the Indus, and, not content with this, was preparing

to crass the indus and’ goon to the Ganges. His soldiers, however,
resisted this design. They were alarsed at the stories which they
heard of the indian aneies, with elephants bearing castles upon their
backs, and soldiers arsed with strange and uneard-of weapons. These
omors, and the natural desire of the soldiers not to go away any
further from their native land, produced almost 2 mutiny in the anny.
Ine length, Alexander, learning how strong and how extensive the spirit
of insubordination was becoming, summoned his officers to his own
tent, and then ordering the whole aray to gather around, he went out
to meet them,

He made an address to thes, in which he recounted all their past
exploits, praised the courage and perseverance which they had shown
this far, and endeavored to animate them with a desire to proceed.
hey Listened in silence, and no one attenpted to reply. this solemn
pause was Followed by marks of great agitation throughout the
Sssenbly. The aray loved their commander, notwsthstanging his faults
land failings. They were extrenely unwilling to make ary resistance to
his authorsty; but they had lost that extrene and unbounded confidence
in his energy and vireue which made them ready, in the former part of
iis career, to press forward into any difficulties ang dangers
whatever, uhere’ he Jed the way.

Ine last one of the army approached the king and addressed hin somewhat
5 follow!

‘We are not changed, sir, in our affection for you. We still have, and
shall always retain, the’ sane zeal and the sane Fidelity. We are ready
to follow you at the hazard of our Lives, and’ to march wherever you
nay lead us. Still we must ask you, ost respectfully, to consider the
Cineusstances in which we are placed. We have done all for you that it
was possible for man to do. We have crossed seas and land. We have


Page 76, Instance 1, Class: Text
Alexander's invasion of India.--Insubordination of the
aray.--Alexander's address to the army --Address made to hin.--The
nay refuses to go further.--Alexander’s disappointment. --Alexander
Pecolves to return.--He is wounded 4n an assavlt.--Alexanders
excesses. -He abandons his old friends. -Entrance into

Babylon. -nagnificent spectacle.--The astrologers.--Study of the
Stars.--karning of the astrologers. -Alexander's perplexity.--death

of Hephestion.--Alexander's melancholy.--Funeral honors to
Hephastion.--A stupendous project.--Alexander’'s depression.--Magnificent
Plans.--& prolonged carousal.--Alexander's excesses.--Alexander's last
Sickness.-rHis dying words.--Alexander’s death.--Alexander” and
Mashington.--Calanitous results which followed Alexander's
death.--storay debates.--Aridaus appointed king.--eFfects of the

ews of Alexander's death.--Death of Sysiganbis.—-Rejoicings at
Ithens.--Denosthenes.--2oy of the Athenians.--Phacion.--Heasures of
‘the Athenians.--Teiumphant return of Denosthenes.--Grand reception of
Desosthenes.- Preparations For the funerai.--Destination of Alexander's
body.--A funeral on a grand scale.--The funeral car.--Its construction
and magnitude.--Ornanents and basso relievos.--Colunn of aules.--crowds
of spectators.--the body deposited at Alexandria.--Alexander's true
character. conclusion.


Page 77, Instance 0, Class: Text
arched to the end of the world, and you are now aeditating the
Conquest of another, by going in Search of new Indias, unknown to the
Indians thenselves. such a thought may be worthy of your courage and
resolution, but it surpasses ours, and our strength still nore. Look
at these ghastly faces, and these bodies covered with wounds and
Scars, Remenber how nunerous we were when first we set out with You,
And see how few of us renain. ‘The few who have escaped £0 any toils
land dangers have neither courage nor strength to follow you any
further. They all long to revisit their country and their hoses, and
to enjoy, for the remainder of their lives, the fruits of all their
toils, Forgive them these desires, so naturel to san."

‘ihe expression of these sentiments confined and strengthened them in
the minds of all the soldiers. Alexander was greatly troubled and
Gistressed. disaffection in’a small part of an army may be put. doun
by decisive measures; but when the determination to resist is,
universal, it 1s useless for any comander, however imperious and
absolute in temper, to attenpt to withstand it- Alexander, however,
as extremely unwilling to yield. He remained two days shut up in his
tent, the prey to disappointment and chagrin.

The result, however, was, that he abandoned plans of further conquest,
and turned’ his steps again toward the west. He met with various
Aaventures as he went on, and incurred many dangers, often in 2 rash
land foolish manner, and for no good end. At one tine, while attacking
a small town, he seized a scaling ladder and mounted with the troops
In doing this, however, he put hinself forward so rashly and
Snconeiderately that his’ ladder waz broken, and while the rest
retreated he was left alone upon the wall, hence he descended into
‘the town, and was immediately surrounded by enemies. His Friends
raised their ladders again, and pressed on desperately to find and
rescue hin. Sone gathered around hia and defended hin, while others
contrived to open a snall gate, by which the rest of the army gsined
Séniselon. By this neans Alexander was saved; though, when they.
Drought his Gut of the city, there was an arrow three fect long, which
could not be extracted, sticking into his side through his coat of
nail.

‘he surgeons First very carefully cut off the wooden shaft of the
arrow, and then, enlarging the wound by incisions, they drew out the
barbed point. The soldiers were indignant that Alexander should
expose his person in such 2 fool-hardy way, only to endanger hisselF,
land to compel then to rush into danger to rescue hin. The wound very
nearly proved fatal. The loss of blood was attended with extrene
exhaustion; still, in the course of a few weeks he recovered,
Alexander's habits of intoxication and vicious excess of all. kinds
were, in the mean tine, continually increasing. He not only indulged
In such excesses himself, but he encouraged then in others. He would
offer prizes at his banquets to those who would drink the mast. On one
Of these occasions, the man who conquered drank, it 1s said, eighteen
for twenty pints of wine, after which he lingered in adsery for three
‘days, and then died; and wore than forty others, present at the sane
entertainment, died in consequence of their excesses.

Alexander returned toward Babylon. His friend Hephastion was with his,
sharing with hin every where in all the vicious indulgences to which
he had becone so prone. Alexander gradually separated hinself more and
nore from his old Macedonian friends, and Linked himself more and wore
Closely with Persian associates, He married Seatira, the oldest
daughter of Darius, and gave the youngest daughter to Hephastion. He
encouraged similar warriages between Macedonian officers and Persian
waidens, as far as he could. In a word, he seamed intent in merging,
4h every way, his original character and habits of action in the
feffeninacy, luxury, and vice of the Eastern world, which he had at


Page 78, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘first so looked down upon and despised.
Alexander's entrance into Babylon, on his return fron his Indian
campaigns, was a scene of great magnificence and splendor. Eabassadors
and princés had assembled there fron almost all the nations of the
arth to receive and welcone him, and the most anple preparations were
trade for processions, shone, parsdes, and spectacles £0 do hit honor.
‘The whole country wai ina State of extrene excitenent, and the most
expensive preparations were made to give hin 2 reception worthy of one
wo wae the conguerer and monarch of the world, and the son oF 2 god.
nen Alexander approached the city, however, he was set by a
deputation of Chaldean astrologers. The astrologers were a class of
pntlosophers wha pretended, in those days, to foretell human events by
feeane of the aotdons of the stars. the motions of the stars were
Studied very closely in early tines, and in those Eastern countries,
by the shepherds, who had often to remain in the open air, thraugh the
sumer nights, t0 watch their flocks. These shepherds abseoved that,
nearly al the stare were -fixed. in relation to each other, that is)
although they rose successively in the east, and, passing over, set in
‘the west, they did not change in relation to each ether. There were,
however,”a few that wandered about among the rest in an irregular and
unaccountable manner, They called these stars the wanderers--that 15,
Sn their language, che planets --and they watched their aystersoue
ovenents with great interest and ave. They naturally nagined that
‘these changes had some connection with husan affairs, and they
endeavored to prognesticate from them the events, whether prosperous
fr adverse, which were to befall mankind. whenever 2 comet or 3m
eclipse appeared, they thought it portended some terrible calamity.
‘ihe study’ of the motions and appearances of the stars, with a view to
foretell the course of human affairs, was the science of astrology.
‘he astrologers cane, in a very solemn and imposing procession, to
weet Alexander on his march. they informed him that they had found
ndubitable evidence in the stars that, if he cane into Babylon, he
would hazard his Life. They accordingly begged hin not to approach any
hearer, but to choose some other city for his capital. Alexander was
Very much perplexed by this announcenent. His mind, weakened by
effeninacy and dissipation, was very susceptible to superstitious
Fears. Te was not merely by the debilitating influence of vicious
Andulgence on the nervous constitution that this effect was produces.
He'wae, in part, the moral influence of conscious guilt. Guflt makes
tren afraid. It not only dncreases the power of real dangers, but
predisposes the sind co all sorts of imaginary Fears.

Alexander was very much troubled at this announcesent of the
astrologers. He suspended his aarch, and began anciously to consider
‘at todo. At length the Greck philosophers cane to him and reasoned
with him on the subject, persuading hin that the science of astrology
as not worthy of any beliet. The Greeks had no faith in astrology.
They foretold future events by the flight of Birds, or by the
appearances presented in the dissection of beasts offered in
sacrifice!

‘Ae length, however, Alexander's fears were so far allayed that he
concluded to enter’ the city. He advanced, accordingly, with his whole
aray, and aade his entry under circumstances of the greatest possible
parade and splendor. Ac soon, however, az the excitement of the first
Feu days had passed away, his aind relapsed agsin, and he became
ancious, troubled, and unhappy.

Hephastion, nis great personal friend and conpanion, had died while
he'was on the march toward Babylon. He was Brought to the grave by
diseases produced by dissipation and vice. Alexander was very much
froved by his death, If theew him at once into a fit of despondency and


Page 79, Instance 0, Class: Text
reflections and forebodings which this event produced. He determined
that, a5. soon as he arrived in Babylon, he would do all possible honor
‘to Hephastion’s menory by a magnificent funeral.

be accordingly now sent orders ta all the cities and kingdoms around,
and collected a vast sun for this purpose. He had a part. of the city
Nell pulled down to furnish 2 site for a sonunental edifice. This,
edifice was constructed of an enarmaus size and most elaborate
architecture. It was ornanented with long rows of prows oF ships,
‘taken by Alexander in his victories, and by statues, and columns, and
Sculptures, and gilded ornanents of every xind. There ware images oF
irene on the entablatures near the roof, which, by means of a
hechanisu concealed within, were made to’ sing dinges and mournful
Songs. The expense of this edifice, and of the gates, shows, and
Spectacles connected with its consecration, is said by the histortans
of the day to have been a sum which, on calculation, 1s found equal to
Shout ten millions oF dollars.

‘here were, however, sone Limits still to Alexander's extravagance and
folly. There was 2 mountain in Greece, Mount Athos, which a certain
Projector said could be carved and fashioned into the fora of 3
fan--probably in a recumbent posture. There was 2 city on one of the
Geclivities oF the nountain, snd a small river, issuing from springs
din the ground, cane down on the other side. The artist who conceived
of this prodigious piece of sculpture said that he would so shape the
Figure that the city should be in one of ite hands, and the river
Should flow out from the other.

[rllustration: PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT OF MOUNT ATHOS.]

Alexander listened to this proposal. The name Mount Athos recalled

to his mind the attempt of Xerxes, a former Persian king, who had
attanpted to cut a road through the rocks upon a part of Mount Athos,
Sn the invasion of Greece. He did not succeed, but left the unfinished
work's lasting memorial both of the attenpt and the failure. Alexander
Concluded at length that he would nat attenpt such a sculpture. "Mount
hthos," said he, "is already the monument of one king's folly; will
hot make it that of anther."

‘As soon as the excitement connected with the funeral obsequies of
Hephastion were over, Alexander's mind relapsed again inta a state of
{loony melancholy. This depression, caused, as it was, by previous
fiissipation and vice, seamed to admit of no renedy or relief but in
new excesses, The traces, however, of his former energy £0 far
Penained that he began to form magnificent plans for the inprovenent
(of Babylon. fe conmenced the execution of sone of these plans. fis
ine was spent, in short, in strange altersations: resolution and
energy in foraing vast plans one day, and utter abandonment to all the
excesses of dissipation and vice the next. Tt was a mournful spectacle
to see his former greatness of soul still struggling on, though more
and more faintly, 25 it becane gradually overbarne by the resistless
Snroads of intemperance and sin. The scene was at length suddenly
terminated in the following manner:

(On one occasion, after he had spent a whole night in drinking and
carousing, the guests, when the usual tine arcsved for separating,
Proposed that, instead of this, they should begin anew, and comence
S'second banguet at the end of the first. Alexander, half intoxicated
already, entered warmly nto this proporal. They aesenbled,
accondingly, in a very short tine. There were twenty present at this
new feast. Alexander, to show how far he was from having exhausted
his powers of drinking, began to pledge each one of the company
Sndivigually. Then he drank to. them ali together. There was a very


Page 80, Instance 0, Class: Text
one of the company present, a Macedonian named Proteas. This feat
being received by the company with great applause, he ordered the
great bowl to be Filled again, and drank it off af before,

‘The work was now done. His Faculties and his strength soon failed hia,
and he sank down to the Floor. They bore hin away to his palace. &
Violent fever intervened, which the physicians did all in their power
to allay. Az soon ae his reason returned a little, Alexander arcusea
hinsel? from his Lethargy, and tried to persuade hinsel that he
Should recover. He began to issue orders in regard to the aray, and to
his ships, as if sucha turning of his mind to the thoughts oF power
and empire would help bring his back fren the brink of the grave
touard which he had been so obviously tending. He was determined, in
Fact, that he would not die.

He soon found, however, notwithstanding his efforts to be vigorous and
resolute, that his strength wae fast ebbing away. The vital powers had
received’ a fatal wound, and he soon felt that they could sustain
thenselves but Little longer. He case to the conclusion that he must
die. He drew his signet ring off from his finger; it was a token that
he felt that all uae over. He handed the ring to one of his friends
wo stood by his bed-side “hen Tam gone," said he, "take ay body to
‘he Temple of Jupiter Anon, and inter it there."

‘The generals who were around him advanced to his bed-side, and one
after another kissed his hand, Their old affection for his revived a2
‘hey sau hin about to take leave of them forever, They aeked hin to
om he wished to leave his empire. "To the mast worthy," said he. He
fant, doubtless, by this evasion, that he was too weak’ and exhausted
to think of such’ affairs. He knew, probably, that it was useless for
hin to attenpt to control the government of his empire after his
death. He said, in fact, that he foresaw that the decision of such
‘questions would give rise to sone strange funeral ganes after his
decease. soon after this he died.

‘he palaces of Sabylon were imediately Filled with cries of mourning
at the death of the prince, falloved by bitter and interminable
Gisputes about the succession. It had not been the aim of Alexander's
Life to establish firm and well-settled goverasents in the countries
‘that he conquered, to encourage order, and peace, and industry among
nen, and to introduce systen and regularity in husan affairs, so as to
eave the world in a better condition than he found it. In this
respect his course of conduct presents a strong contrast with that

of Washington. Tt was kashington's aim to mature and perfect
forganizations which would nove on prosperously of themselves, without
him; and he was continually withdrawing his hand fron action’and
Control in public affairs, taking a higher pleasure in the independent
working of the institutions which he had formed and protected, than in
exercising, himself, 2 high personal power. Alexander, on the’ other
hand, was all his Life intent solely on enlarging and strengthening
his Own personal power. Me was ali in all. He wished to make hinself
So. He never thought of the welfare of the countries which he had
Subjected to his sway, or did any thing to guard against the anarchy
and civil wars which he knew full well would break out at once over
a1 his vast dominions, as soon as his power cane to an end.

‘he result was as might have been foreseen. The whole vast field of
his conquests becane, for many long and weary years after Alexander's
death, the prey to the most ferocious and protracted civil wars. Each
{general and governor seized the poner which Alexander's death left in
his hands, and endeavored to defend hincel? in the possession of it
against the others. Thus the devastation and misery which the making
oF these conquests brought upon Europe and Asia were continued for
many years, during the slow and terrible process of their return to


Page 81, Instance 0, Class: Text
In the exigency of the monent, however, at Alexander's death, the
generals who were in his court at the tine assenbled forthwith, and
fade an attempt to appoint sone one to take the immediate connd.
‘They spent a week in storay debates on this subject. Alexander had
eft no legitimate heir, and he had declined when on his death-bed, as
we have already seen, to appoint a successor. song his wives~-if,
Indeed, they say be called wives--there was one named Roxana, who had
a'son not long after his death, This son was wltinately named his
Successor; but, in the mean tine, a certain relative naned Aridzus was
chosen by the generals to assume’ the comand. The Selection of Aridaus
was a sort of compromise, He had no talents or capacity whatever, and
Mas chosen by the rest on that very account, each one thinking that if
Such an inbecile as Aridzus was nominally the king, he could Rinself
fanage to get possession of the real power. Arddsus accepted the
appointment, but he was never able to sake hineelf king in any thing
but the mane

In the mean tine, a5 the tidings of Alexander's death spread over the
fempire, it produced very various effects, according to the personal
Feelings in respect to Alexander entertained by the various

ersonages and powers to which the intelligence cane, Sone, who had
amined his greatness, and the splendor of his exploits, without
having theaselves experienced the bitter fruits of then, mourned and
lamented his death. Others, whose fortunes had been ruined, and whose
Friends and relatives had been destroyed, in the course, or in the
Sequel of his victories, rejoiced that he who had been such a scourge
and curse to others, had himself sunk, at last under the just judgeent
of heaven

We should have expected that Sysiganbis, the bereaved and widowed
other of Darius, would have been among those who would have exulted
frost highly at the conqueror's death; but history tells us that,
Snstead of this, she mourned over it with 9 protracted. and
Anconsolable grief. Alexander had been, in fact, though the implacable
feneny of her Son, 2 faithful and generous friend to her. He had
treated her, at all tines, with the utsost respect and consideration,
had supplied all her warts, and ministered, in every way, to her
Confort and happiness. she had gradually 1éarned to think of him and
to love him as 2 son; he, in fact, always called her mother} and

wen she learned that he’was gone, she felt as if her last earthly
Protector was gone. Her life had been one continued scene of
SFfliction and sorrow, and this Last blow brought her to her end. She
ined auay, perpetually restless and distressed. she lost all desire
for food, and refused, 1ike others who are suffering great mental
anguish, to take the sustenance which her friends and attendants
‘offered’ and urged upon her. At length she died. They said she starved
herself to death; but it was, probably, grief and despair at being
thus left, in her declining years, so hopelessly friendless and alone,
and not hunger, that desteayed her.

4n striking contrast to this mournful scene of sorrow in the palace of
Sysigambis, there was an exhibition of the most wild and tumultuous
Joy in the streets, and in all the public places of resort in the city
{3 athens, when the tidings of the death oF the great Macedonian king
arrived there. The Athenian commonwealth, a5 well as ali the other
States of Southern Greece, had submitted very reluctantly to the
Macedonian suprenacy. They had resisted Philip, and they had resisted
‘Alexander, Their opposition had been st last suppressed and cilencea
by Alexander's terrible vengeance upon Thebes, but it never was
really subdued. Denosthenes, the orator, who had exerted so powerful
fan influence against the Macedonian kingey had been sent into
Banishnent, and all outward expressions of discontent were restrained.
The discontent and hostility existed still, however, as inveterate as


Page 82, Instance 0, Class: Text
mument that the terrible energy of Alexander himself was no longer to
be feared
nen, therefore, the rumor arrived at Athens--for at First it was a
frere’rumor--that Alexander was dead in Sabylon, the whole city was
‘Ehrown into a state of the most tumultuous joy. The citizens ascenbled
din the public places, and congratulated and harangued each other with
expressions of the greatest exultation. They were for proclaiming
‘their independence and declaring war against Macedon on the spat. Some
of the older and more sagacious of their counselors were, however,
fore composed and caln. They recommended a 1ittle delay, in ander’ to
See whether the news was really true. Phocion, in particular, who was
fone of the prominent statesman of the city, endeavored to quiet the
excitement oF the people. "Do not let us be So precipitate,” said he.
“there 4s tine enough. If Alexander is really deod to-day, he will Be
dead to-noreow, and the next day, so that there will be tine enough
for us to act with deliberation snd discretion.”
Dust and true as this view of the subject was, there was too much of
rebuke ang satire in it to have much influence with those to whom
Ye was addressed. The people were resolved on war. They sent
Commissioners into alll the states of the Peloponnesus to organize a
league, offensive and defensive, against Macedon. They recalled
Denosthenes from his banishient, and adopted all the necessary
military measures for establishing and maintaining their freedon. The
Consequences of all this would doubtless have been very serious, if
{the rumor of Alexander's death had proved false; but, fortunately for
Desosthenes and the Athenians, it was soon abundantly confiraed,
‘The return of Denosthenes to the city was like the triumphal entry of
2" conqueror. At the tine of hie recall he was at the island of gins,
Nich 1s about forty miles southwest of Athens, in one of the gulfs of
the Agean Sea. They sent a public galley to receive him, and to bring
hhin to the land. It was a galley of three banks of oars, and was
Fitted up ina style to do-honor to 2 public guest. athens 4=
Situated sone distance back from the sea, and has a small port, called
the Piraus, at the shore--a long, straight avenue leading fron the
port to the city. The galley by which Denosthenes was conveyed landed
Bt the Piraus. Ail the civil and religious authorities of the city
went down to the port, in a grand procession, to receive and welcone
the exile on his arrival, and a large portion of the population
Followed in the train, t0 witness the spectacle, and t0 swell by these
acclanations the general expression of Joy
In the mean tine, the preparations for Alexander's funeral had been
joing on, upon a great scale of magnificence and splendor. Tt was. tho
Years before they were complete. ‘The body had been given, first, £0 be
fenbained, according to the Egyptian and chaldean art, and then had
been placed ina sort of sarcophagus, in which it was to be conveyed
to its long howe. Alexander, it will be renewbered, had given
{directions that i should be taken to the tenple of Jupiter Aamon, in
‘the Egyptian oasis, where he had been pronounced the son of a god. It
would seem incredible that such a mind a= his could really adait. such
fn absurd superstition as the story of his divine origin, and we must
Therefore suppose that he gave this direction in order that the place
fof his interment might confirn the idea of his superhunan nature in
the general opinion of mankind. At all events, such were his orders,
and the authorities uno were left in power at Babylon after his death,
Prepared to execute then
1e was a long journey. To convey a body by a regular funeral


Page 83, Instance 0, Class: Text
formed. It has something like a parallel in the renoval of Napoleon's
body frow st. Helena to Paris, though this was not really an
Sntenment, bit 2 transfer. Alexander's was 2 simple burdal procession,
foing fron the palace where he died to the proper cenetery-ra march
ff a thousand wiles, it is true, but all within his oun dominions The
greatness of it resulted simply’ fron the wagnitude of the scale on
hich every thing pertaining to the wighty Rere was perforned, for

YE was nothing but a simple passage from the dwelling £0 the
burdal-ground on his own estates, after all.

‘A very large and elaborately constructed carriage was built to convey
‘the body. The accounts of the richness and splendor of this vehicle
are almost incredible. The spokes and staves of the wheels were
overlaid with gold, and the extremities of the axles, where they
Sppeared outside at the canters of the wheels, were adorned with
ftsive golden ornaments, The wheels and axle-trees were so large, and
So far apart, that there was supported upon then a platform or Floor
for the carriage twelve feet wide and eighteen feet Long. Upon this
platform there was erected a magnificent pavilion, supported by Tonic
Columns, and profusely omanented, both within and without, with
purple and gold. The interdor constituted an apartnent, more or Less
pen at the sides, and resplendent within with geas and precious
Stones. The space’ of twelve feet by eighteen forms 2 chanber of no
nconsiderable size, and there was thus ample room for what was
‘required within. There was a throne, raised some steps, and placed
back upon the piatforn, profusely carved and gilded. It was enpty; but
crowns, representing the various nations over whom Alexander Ned
Feigned, were hung upon st. At the foot of the throne was the coffin,
wade, it is said, of solid gold, and containing, besides the body, 2
‘ange quantity of the nost Costly spices and aromatic perfumes, uhich
filled the air with their odor. The arse which Alexander wore were
aid out ‘in view, also, between the coffin and the throne.

on the four sides of the carriage were basso relievos_, that is,
Sculptured figures raised fron 2 surface, representing Alexander
hinself, with various military concoritants. There were Macedonian
columns, and Persian squadrons, and elephants of India, and troops of
horse, and various other enblens of the departed hero's grestness. and
ower: Around the pavilion, too, there was a fringe or net-work of
olden lace, to the pendents of which were attached bells, which
folled continually, with a mournful sound, as the carriage moved
along. long colunn of aules, sixty-four’ in aunber, arranged in sets
(of four, drew this ponderous car. These mules were all selected for
Their great size and strength, and were splendidly caparisoned. They
had collars and harnesses mounted with gold, and enriched with
Precious stones.

fefore the procession set out Fram Babylon an army of pioneers and
worknen went forward to repair the roads, strengthen the bridges, and
Fesove the obstacles along the uhole line of raute over which the
rain was to pass. At length, when all was ready, the solenn procession
began to move, and passed out through the gates Of Babylon. No pen can
describe the enormous throngs of spectators that assenbled to witness
Ste departure, and that gathered along the route, az J? passed elowly
fon from city to city, in its long and weary way.

Notwithstanding all this ponp and parade, however, the body never
reached its intended destination. Ptolemy, the officer to whom Egypt
fell in the division of Alexander's enpire, cane forth with a grand
fescort of troops to meet the funeral procession ax it came into Egypt.
he prefecred, for sone reason or other, that the body should be
interred in the city of Alexandria. It was accordingly deposited
‘there, and a grest monunent was erected over the spat. This sonunent
4s sald to have renained standing for fifteen hundred years, but all
vestiges of 1t have now disappeared. The city of Alexandria itself,


Page 84, Instance 0, Class: Text
Updated editions will replace the previous one-the old editions will
be renamed,

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
low means that no one cons a United States copyright in these works,
S50 the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying. copyright

royalties. special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this License, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg” electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
land may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
‘the terms of the tradenark License, including paying royalties for use
ff the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying wich the trademark license {= very
featy. You aay use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, perforsances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given avay you may
{fo practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks nov provected
by U.S. copyright Lav. Redistribution is subject to the tradenark
License, especially conmercial redistribution.


Page 84, Instance 1, Class: Text
however, is the conquerors real monument; the greatest and best,
perhaps, that any conqueror ever left behing him. It 1s 2 monument,
foo, that tine will not destroy; its position and character, as
Alexander foresaw, by bringing it a continued renovation, secure

its perpetuity.

Alexander earned well the nane and reputation of THE GREAT. He was
truly great in all those powers and capacities which can elevate one
man above his fellows. we can not help applauding the extraordinary
fenergy of his genius, though we condenn the selfish and cruel ends to
ich his life was devoted. He was simply 2 robber, but yet a rabber
fn So vast a scale, that mankind, in contemplating his career, have
generally lost sight of the wickedness of his crises in their
Saniration of the enormous magnitude of the scale on which they were
perpetrated.


Page 84, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘its perpetuity.

Alexander earned well the nane and reputation of THE GREAT. He was
truly great in all those powers and capacities which can elevate one
man above his fellows. we can not help applauding the extraordinary
fenergy of his genius, though we condenn the selfish and cruel ends to
ich his life was devoted. He was simply 2 robber, but yet a rabber
fn So vast a scale, that mankind, in contemplating his career, have
generally lost sight of the wickedness of his crises in their
Saniration of the enormous magnitude of the scale on which they were
perpetrated.

ranscriber's note

4. Minor changes have been made to correct typesetters’ errars, and to
ensure consistent spelling and punctuation in this etext; otherwise,
fvery effort has been made to remain true to the original. book.

2. The chapter summaries in this text were originally published as
bamers in the page headers, and have been moved to beginning of the
chapter for the reader's convenience.

Updated editions will replace the previous one-the old editions will
be renamed,

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
low means that no one cons a United States copyright in these works,
S50 the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying. copyright

royalties. special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this License, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg” electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
land may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
‘the terms of the tradenark License, including paying royalties for use
ff the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying wich the trademark license {= very
featy. You aay use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, perforsances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given avay you may
{fo practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks nov provected
by U.S. copyright Lav. Redistribution is subject to the tradenark
eee eee ennai eee nstuetan


Page 85, Instance 0, Class: Text
To protect the Project Gutenberg” mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in’ any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the teras of the Full
Project Gutenberg” License available with this File or online at
vow. gutenberg.org/License.

Section 1. General Terss of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg”
electronic works

4.8, By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg”
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
fad accept al the terns of this License and intellectual. property
(Eradenark/copyright) agreenent. If you do not agree to abice by all
‘the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return oF
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg” electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access £0 3
Project Gutenberg electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the teras of this agreement, you nay obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.6.8.
1.8. “Project Gutenbeng” 1s a registered trademark. It may only be
Used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by pegple who
agree to be bound by the terme of this agreenant. There are a few
‘things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg” electronic works
even without complying with the full terns of this agreement. See
paragraph i.c below. there are a lot of things you ean do with Project
Gutenberg” electronic works if you follow the teras of this

fagresnent and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg”
@lectronic works. See paragraph 1.€ below.

41.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
fof Project Gutenberg” electronic works, Nearly all the individual
orks in the collection are in the public donain in the United

States. IF an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United states and you are located in the United States, we do not
lain 2 right to prevent you fron copying, distributing, perforsing,
Gisplaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long 3s
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. OF course, we hope
‘that you will support the Project Gutenberg” mission of promoting
Free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg”
works in compliance with the tenms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg” nane associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the teras of this agreesent by keeping this work in the
Sane format with its attached full Project Gutenberg” License when
you share st without charge with others

41,0. The copyright laus of the place where you are located also govern
wat you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
Ina Constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws oF your country in addition to the terms of this,
agreenent before downloading, copying, displaying, perforaing,
Gistributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenbeng™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United states.


Page 86, Instance 0, Class: Text
1.€.1. The following sentence, with active Links to, on other
Amediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg” License must appear
Prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg: work (any work
fon which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or xith which the
Phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) 1s accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
Uihatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term
Of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
3t hn gutenberg.org. IF you
are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
(Of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
1.6.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work 1s
derived fron texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
Contain a notice indicating that Jt is posted with permission of the
Copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirenents of paragraphs 1.£.1 through 3.6.7 or
fbtain peraiscion for the use of the wark and the Project Gutenberg™
teradenark as set forth in paragraphs 1.£.8 or 1.6.9.
1.6.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
ftust comply with both paragraphs 1.£.3 through 1.€.7 and any
additional terms inposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
WiLL be Linked to the Project Gutenberg” License for all works
posted with the persission of the copyright holder found at the
Beginning of this work.
41.£.4. 09 not unlink or detach or refave the full Project Gutenberg”
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg"
1.6.5. Do not copy, display, perfors, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, of any part oF this electronic werk, without
Prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 2.€.1 with
fctive Links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg” License.
1.6.6. You way convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonpropristary or proprsetary form, including
any word processing of hypertext form. Hovever, if you provide access
to on distrivute copies of a Project Gutenberg” work in a format
bother than “lain Vanilla ASCE” or other format used in the official
Version posted on the official Project Gutenberg” website
(Gnor.gutenberg.org), you must, 3¢ no additional cost, fee on expense
to the user, provide 2 copy, 3 means of exporting a Copy, or 3 means
Of obtaining & copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other fora. Any alternate format must include the
Full Project Gutenberg” Licence as specified in paragraph 1.€.4,
1.6.7. 00 not change @ fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
Unless you'comply with paragraph 1.€.8 or 1.€.9.
41.6.8. You aay charge a reasonable fee for copies of on providing
‘access to or distributing Project Gutenberg electronic works


Page 87, Instance 0, Class: Text
+ You pay a royalty fee of 28% of the gross profits you derive from
‘the Use OF Project Gutenberg” works calculated using the method
you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. the fee is owed
to the owner of the Project Gutenberg” tradenark, but he has
agreed £0 donste royalties under this paragraph to the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paté
within 6 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
paysents. should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
Section , “Information about donations to the Praject Gutenberg
Literary Arenive Foundation.”

+ You provide a full refund of any money paid by 2 user who notifies
you in writing (or by e-nail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
foes not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
License. You must require such 3 user to return or destroy all
Copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg”
work

+ You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, 2 full refund of
‘any money paid for a work or a replacenent copy, if a defect in the
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 98 days oF
receipt of the work

+ You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.£.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg” electronic work or graup of works on different terws than
are set forth in this agreesent, you mUst obtain peraission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg” trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and enployees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright lau in’ creating the Project
Gutenbeng™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not linited to, incosplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, 2 copyright or othe*
intellectual property infringenent, a’ defective or danaged disk or
other medius, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacenent or Refund” described in paragraph 2.F-3, the Project,
Gutenberg Literary archive Foundation, the owner oF the Project
Gutenberg” tradenark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg” electronic work under this agreenent, disclaim all
Liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU RAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT


Page 87, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘the Project Gutenberg” trademark. Contact the Foundation as set”
forth in Section 3 below.

1.f.4. Project Gutenberg volunteers and eaployees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
Works not protected by U.S. copyright lau in’ creating the Project
Gutenberg” collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg”
flectrenic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
Contain “Defects,” such as, but not linited to, incomplete, inaccurate
for corrupt data, ‘transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringenent, a defective or danaged disk or
other medium, 2 conputer virus, or’ computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1,F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DNMAGES - Except for the “Right
tf Replacenent or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F-3, the Project,
Gutenberg Literary archive Foundation, the owner oF the Project
Gutenberg” trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg” electronic work under this agreanent, disclaim all
Liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
‘Fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU RAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, “STRICT
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR


Page 88, Instance 0, Class: Text
4.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACENENT OR REFUND - IF you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 99 days of receiving it, you can
Peceive 9 refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
weitten explanation to the person you received the work from. IF you
received the work on a physical medium, you mist return the medium
With your weitten explanation. The person or entity that provided you
With the defective work aay elect to provide 2 replacement. copy in
Lieu of a refund. IF you received the work electronically, the person
for entity providing i to you aay choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
‘the second copy is also defective, you may denand a refund. in writing
without further opportunities to fx the problen.

1.F.4. Except for the Liaited right of replacenent or refund set forth
4 paragraph 1.F-3, this work is provided to you *AS-15", WITH NO
L.F.5. Some states do not allow disclainers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or Limitation of certain types of

‘damages. If any disclaimer or Linitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreenent, the
agreenent shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclainer or
Limitation permitted by the applicable state lav. The invalidity or
lunenforceabilsty of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions:

4.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
‘radanark onner, any agent or enployee ot the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg” electronic works in

Sccondance with this agreement, and ary volunteers associated with the
Production, pronation and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
Electronic works, harmless from all 1iability, costs and expenses,
Sncluding legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly éron any oF
‘the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution oF this
for any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
auditions or deletions to any Project Guteaberg™ work, and (€) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™
Project Gutenberg” is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formate readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. 1t
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
‘rom people in all walks of Life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project cutenberg™’s
foals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg” collection will

Femain freely available for generations to cone. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg” and future

generations. To learn nore about the Project utenberg Literary
Erchive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at wm.gutenberg.org.
Section 3. Inforaation about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundatior
‘he Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit,
521(e)(3) educational corporation organized under the Laws of the
State of Mississipp! and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundstion’s EIN or federal tax identification
ruber 1s 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary


Page 89, Instance 0, Class: Text
archive Foundation are tax deductible ta the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s Laws
‘ihe Foundation’s business office is located at #29 North 2500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84i46, (881) $96-1887, Email contact Links and Up
fo date contact information can be Found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at w.gutenberg.org/contact
Section 4. information about Oonations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary frenive Foundation
Project Gutenberg depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its sission of
Encreasing the number of public donain and licensed works that can be
Freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
(31 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exenpt
status with the 18S.
‘he Foundation is comitted to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 59 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not unifora and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and Keep up
With these requirenents. we do not solicit donations in locations
Ninere we have nat received written confiraation of compliance. To SEND
DOWATEONS or determine the Status of compliance for any particular state
‘visit mur.gutenberg.org/ donate.
nile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirenents, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations #réa donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.
ntemnational donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot aake
any statements. concerning tax treataent of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. Lave alone swaap our small staff,
Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
feethods and addresses. Donations are accepted in 2 nunber of other
ways including checks, online paysents and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: wm.gutenterg-ong/donate.
Section 5. General Inforaation About Project Gutenberg” electronic works
Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg” concept of a Library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg” eBooks with only 2 loose network of
volunteer support.
Praject Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
‘the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with ary particular paper
eaition.
Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
Facility! waw.gutenberg.org,
‘nis website includes information about Project Gutenbere™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
‘Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
Subscribe to our email neweletter to hear about new e800k=.


