Page 1, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Alexander the Great as a Philosopher-King
By Donald Joseph Broussard
King Alexander II of Macedon, besides being a general par excellence, was also a philosopher.
His eatly life was like that of his hero Ackilleus; his education consisted both of lessons from
‘one of the time's greatest philosophers as well s “uneducated” barbarians

‘Alexander became king on the death of his father, Philip Il of Macedon, in 336 B.C. He
was prepared for this awesome responsibility partly because Aristotle, himself a Macedonian and
student of Plato, was secured as teacher to tutor prince Alexander: the fourteen-year-old prince
probably owed his desire to pursue the unknown geographic areas of his time to Aristotle
(Bosworth 1988, 21,

In youth, Alexander learned passion fiom his mother, Olympias, a “devotee of the
‘orgiastic cults of Dionysus” (Hamilton 1974, p 29). His father, Philip II, “has sometimes been
contrasted with Olympias as supplying the Apolline or rational aspect of Alexander's characte”
(GHansilton 30) The prince's reading consisted of Euripides, who fled to the court of Atchelaus I
‘of Macedon in 406 B.C. and whose plays he knew by heart (Bosworth 26) Also standard reading
was Homer, from which Alexander styled himself after Achilles, and his best trend,
Hephuestion, as Patrclus (Lipsius 1974, 41). Alexander would become familiar with the
historian Philistus and the dithyrambie poets Telestus and Philoxenus (Bosworth 20).

Alexander saw himself as destined to topple the mighty Persian empire, which had, under
‘Xerxes I, antagonized Greece 150 years before (Benoist-Mechin, 1966, 28). It was conventional
Greek thought to seek revenge: proof of this isthe traditional maxim lex talionis ~ law of
‘etalation (Benoist-Mechin 40) in Aeschylus's Orestia. Greece remembered the invasion in 480
BC. by Xerzea (ibid 22% thle led to demande of retritetion.


Page 2, Instance 0, Class: Text
Aristotle taught the prince that “the tyrant’s aim is pleasure; the king’s is duty. Hence

they differ in their appetites and ambitions: the tyrant grasps at money, the king at honor”
(Cipsius 45). Aristotle, moreover, considered Persia tyrannical in his Nichomachean Ethics
(1160030); therefore Persia was to be subdued as an ancient and evil enemy.
‘An example of this education occurs when the king was il, before the batle of Issus. His most
senior general, Parmenion, sent a letter accusing the king's doctor, Philip the Arcananian, of
‘conspiring with the enemy Persians to kill him. As Alexander drank his medicine, he handed his
doctor the letter and so remembered “Aristotle's lessons in distinguishing the self-assured king
fiom the eternally suspicious tyrant” (Lipsius 114),

He would subjugate the Persians, not obliterate them; be had admired Cyrus the Great,
Darius I and Xerxes 1. Upon coming to a fallen statue of Nerxes, Alexander accosted the
long-dead tyrant

Shall we negletfully pass thee by, now that thou ait prostrate on the ground, because

thou once invadedst Greece, of shall we erect thee again, in consideration of the greatness

‘of thy mind and thy other virwes? (Plutarch 263)

‘Alexander contented himself with burning down Persepolis, the palace of Xerxes (ibid). That
sepaid Persia for er war with Greece

‘The concept of oikumene ~ literally family state (Historia Terraum iv, 4) became poliey
at Alexander's court, When he visited the tomb of Cyrus Il of Persia, forefather of Darius I and
“Xerxes I, Alexander became convinced that “he must add to his Macedonian heritage that of the
King of Kings. . . “ (Benoist-Mechin 187). The empire would be ideally held together by
‘common culture, This policy caused much bite division between the King and his oops. This
division was personified in the quarrels of Hephaestion and Craters, two of Alexander's most
trusted fiends, Plutarch relates that “Hephaestion was a friend of Alexander's, while Craterus


Page 2, Instance 1, Class: Text
Shall we negletfully pass thee by, now that thou ait prostrate on the ground, because

thou once invadedst Greece, of shall we erect thee again, in consideration of the greatness

‘of thy mind and thy other virwes? (Plutarch 263)
‘Alexander contented himself with burning down Persepolis, the palace of Xerxes (ibid). That
sepaid Persia for er war with Greece

‘The concept of oikumene ~ literally family state (Historia Terraum iv, 4) became poliey
at Alexander's court, When he visited the tomb of Cyrus Il of Persia, forefather of Darius I and
“Xerxes I, Alexander became convinced that “he must add to his Macedonian heritage that of the
King of Kings. . . “ (Benoist-Mechin 187). The empire would be ideally held together by
‘common culture, This policy caused much bite division between the King and his oops. This
division was personified in the quarrels of Hephaestion and Craters, two of Alexander's most
‘trusted friends, Plutarch relates that “Hephaestion was a friend of Alexander's, while Craterus


Page 3, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘was a ftiend of the King's” (Plutarch 272). Hephaestion ageeed with the King’s policies;
‘Craters, however, opposed them, preferring Macedonian customs (ibid). The two men clashed
vehemently

‘They came to blows which Alexander himself had to break up, swearing that he loved
both men more than any other human beings. At the same time he told them that he would kill
them both ~or atleast the one who started it ~ were they to fight again (Lipsius 162).

His fiend Cleitus, whose sister had nursed him as a baby (Lipsius 170) and who saved
his if at he battle of Granicus (Bosworth 43), challenged the king with a quote from Euripides
Andromache: “Alas, what evil custom reigns in Greece” (Lipsius 180). In drunken rage, Clitus
reminded the king precisely who had saved his impetuous life, and decried the increasing
(Orientalism ofthe court (ibid). Alexander grabbed a spear and, in equally Dionysiae passion, ran
his fiend through

‘When Alexander entered the palace of Darius Ill, “he beheld the bathing vessels, the
water pots. all of gold... and tured to those about him and said, “This it seems, is royalty"
(Plutarch 245). This was the palace of the King of Kings, in whose presence courtiers were not
permitted to stand (Historia Teerarum, vo. i, 4).

‘Alexander's “view thatthe whole world is a whole unit, and all things may be brought
together” possibly came from the ecumenical philosopher Aristotle (ibid). This was exactly how
‘Alexander proceeded to unite his empire. He would amalgamate non-Greek with Greek: not
purely Hellenic, but Hellenistic. He started with the oriental idea of proskynesis ~ prostration
Aristotle's nephow Callisthenes refsed to peeform the ritual; he was accordingly “goaded by the
king into damning the Macedonians since, said Alexander, quoting Euripides, “On noble subjects
all men can speak well”. The sophist Callisthenes — general Lysimachus considered him such


Page 4, Instance 0, Class: Text
(Plutarch 250) — was then imprisoned (Lipsius 162).
‘At the Hydaspes river, Alexander encountered King Porus: the Macedonians, never
having seen elephants before rallied under Alexander and an old phalanx commander, Coenus
(ipsius 195). Porus lost many of his oops, among them two sons, and the meeting between
Victor and vanguished left an impression on the vietor: “Never had he seen a man show such
dignity in adversity” (Benoist-Mechin, 110)
‘The unpopular assimilation policy regarding the cultures hecame a evsis when the tops
sebelled twice: at the river Hyphasis (Bosworth 132), and at Opis inthe summer of 324 B.C.
‘The first time, the men refused to eros the river ecause of utter exhaustion: Coenus, speaking
for them, expounded their cause by demanding a hall. Alexander angrily retired 10 his tent
ibid), but gave into his troops and ordered the army to turnaround. He ordered sacrifices to ask
the gods’ advice, which was negative (Lipsius 200). But when the army moved, “Alexander
stayed with the rear guard, as though he could not bear to teat himself away from a landscape
Which he would never see again. A page in his life had been turned, He chatted about this and
that with Hephaestion, but his casual terms deceived no one” (Benoist-Mechin 119),
‘The revolt at Opis concerned emotions of betrayal (Bosworth 160). By this time, Coenus had
died (ibid.). Alexander, having tied of the complaining of his Macedonians, reminded them
what his father ade had done for them, then ordered thems home:
Very well then, Go! And when you get home, tll the peopl that your king, Alexander.
Who sealed the Caucasus: who crossed the Oxus, the Jaxartes, and the Indus, which only
Dionysus had reached before him ~ as well as the Hydaspes, the Aeschines, and the
Hyphasis, and who would have crossed the Hyphasis with you, had you not prevented
him; whose fleet opened the ocean route from the Indus to Persia ~ that this king you
deserted and let to the protection ofthe defeated barbarians! (Benoist-Mechin 175)
He then sulked in bis tent as hs hero Actilleus had done. The mea, with the old cavaley


Page 5, Instance 0, Class: Text
do not with endless warfare but with the King making Persians his “Kinsmen,” something he had
‘not done for his own Macedonians (ibid). Alexander responded, “I make you all my kinsmen”
(ipsius 212

“After the two revels, Alexander sent Craterus home with older veteran troops; “Crates.

hhad been most outspoken in defense of Macedonian tradition, and, like Parmenion, had been

‘kept regularly from court...“ (Bosworth 161). The king believed strongly in his policy: whoever
could not accept that would be dismissed. What could move him to do this to fellow
Macedonians who had come so far with him?
‘The epitaph of Cyrus, Plutarch relates, moved Alexander with simple dignity. It read

(© Man, whosoever thou art, and from whencesoever thou comest (for I know thou wilt

come), Lam Cyrus, founder of the Persian Empite: do not grudge me this litle earth

Which covers my body (Plutarch 292)

‘The reading “sensibly touched Alexander, filling him with thoughts of the uncertainty
and mutability of human affies” (bid)
‘Alexander had begun crossing the Hellespont by offering libation atthe tomb of Protesilaus, the
Greek who was the first to set foot on Trojan soil and the fist to die there (Bosworth 37). He
prayed to avoid that hero's fate while possessing his boldness; even Ackilleus had hesitated at
the prophesy of death forthe fist Argive soldier setting foot at Troy. By tracing his genealogy to
‘Achilleus’ son Neoptolemus and Trojan princess Andromache, the young king “was eager to
reconcile the two sides of his lineage” (Bosworth 39). This idea of oiktumene (*umily-stae”
Historia Terrarum) foreshadowed later fact and was responsible for Alexander's celebrated
nultiple marriage ceremony at Susa. Alexander, having just seen the final resting place of Cyrus,
‘wanted 10 “unite the wo nations by the communication of children” (Benoist-Mechin 146). He
himself wed the daughter of Darius I; her sister he gave to Hephuaeston; her cousin he gave to


Page 6, Instance 0, Class: Text
Craters (ibid, 47). The mixture in bloodlines would become a precursor to the mixture of
cultures necessary to hold the empe together. Had he not told the mother of Darius HI, when
she mistook the taller Hephaestion for the king, she was not to wony, for “He is another
Alexander"? Aristotle had defined a friend as another self, and now his alter ego would have
children that were cousins 0 his

‘This idealism was not embraced by his two most senior generals, Antipater and Parmenion. The
former was left at home as regent for most of the king's reign, while the latter was assassinated
‘on charges of conspiracy, with his son Philotas (Lipsius 79). Parmenion and Alexander disagreed
philosophically; the old general always urged caution, the king heard none of it, rooted as it was
in an older system unsympathetic o youthful boldness. Antipater, also growing old, was judged
to be past his effectiveness, They were both ofthe generation of Philip I; therefore Alexander's
‘new ecumenical attitude was not shated by them,

‘Atany rate, Anipater “didnot respond immediately. Instead he sent his eldest son, Cassander, 10
court” (Bosworth, 162). Alexander coolly received him into camp, but the atmosphere of the
‘camp became despondent when Hephsestion died at Echatana, to which the army had marched
(Plutarch 294)

Hephuaestion had been one ofthe king's closest intimates his grief did not wane upon crucifixion
‘of Hephaeston’s unfortunate physician, shearing the manes ofall mules and horse, razing the
temple of Asclepius, or prohibition ofall music in camp, according to Plutarch (24),

‘Alexander leamed many lessons from many people. Aristotle gave him curiosity forthe
unknown, Darius II had shown him what it was lke to be king of kings. Cyrus I had
posthumously reminded him of mortality. Porus, the Indian who so nearly defeated him atthe
Hydaspes, had shown him “dignity in adversity” (Benoist-Mechin 110). But it was Hephaestion


Page 7, Instance 0, Class: Text
who gave Alexander friendship - philos. He embodied Aristotle's admonition to have “excellent
friends” (Ethics ix, 1170b15). Just as Achilleus never thought of death until it held Patrochs in
its inexorable grasp, so too Alexander never considered his future. Not even the message of
(Cyrus If had such an effect: as great as he was, Cyrus was not divine, while Alexander thought
the was, Had not the sacred Oracle of Delphi proclaimed, “My son, thou at invincible” (Plutarch
238)? How could death have power over the son of the god of Delphi, Apollo, himself son of
Zeus?

‘After a long period of mourning for Hephaestion, the army went to Babylon
(Benoist-Mechin 220). The king undertook various explorations of the area (bid): he listened
With interest to his childhood fiend, admiral Nearchus, explain what discoveries his fleet had
made near the Tigeis and Euphrates rivers. Meanwhile, at the Babylonian palace, a stranger
calling himself Dionysus seated himself on the vacated throne. The King ordered him taken
‘away for execution, but the omen was not missed (Benois-Mechin 222), Plutarch relates that
Seleucus and some other generals went tothe temple of Serapis for divine assistance: none was
forthcoming. The king felt surrounded by enemies. Antipaer’s sons, Cassander and Tolaus, the
later being cupbearer to the king, became incarnations of terror to him (Plutarch 296). Also,
‘Nearchus had heard of ominous warnings thatthe march to Babylon be postponed (iid. 295).

Hephuestion’s replacement, Perdceas, discreetly disobeyed Alexander's order for two
Ihuge funeral monuments, one for Philip I, 10 be consteucted on a scale similar to the Great
Pyramid in Egypt, and one for Alexander Ill (Boswoath 164).

‘Alexander spent his final days inthe palace of King Nebuchadnezzae (Boswomth 172); rumors of
poising ran throughout the city, with Cassander and lolaus suspected (Bosworth 170).
His generals carved the empire amongst themselves. Ptolemy took Egypt: Antigonus ruled Asia


Page 8, Instance 0, Class: Text
Minor: Antipater retained Macedonia. Media was divided between Python and Atropates while
‘Archon obiained Babylonia. Eumenes received Cappadocia, and Lysimachus took Thrace
(Benoist-Mechin 229), Most of the men already governed their provinces as satraps;
significantly, this idea was borrowed fom Cyrus and Darius I (Bosworth 229)

Perdiccas was appointed overall commander of the army. with Seleucus in charge of the
cavalry and Meleager the infantry; Cassander was given command of the foreign contingents,
and Craters “became intendant-general ofthe empire” (Benoist-Mechin 228)

‘The proclaimed king of Macedon was Arrhidaeus, who was given the name Philip II; he
was an imbecile paternal half-brother of Alexander and would die in 317 B.C.,the same year as
his guardian, Antipater (Boswoxth 174).

‘The king's posthumous son, Alexander IV, an infant who ruled with Philip II, was

assassinated in 310 B.C. by none other than Cassander (Bosworth 174). The generals Antigonus,
Selecus, and Ptolemy proclaimed themselves Kings in Macedon, Asia, and Egypt, respectively
(Historia Terrarum, iv, 4). Alexander's idea of ecumenism died with him Antigonus I held the
land from the Aegean to the Euphrates, and Seleucus I from there to India (Bosworth 176). The
‘only generals who sought to pursue Alexander's dream of eikumene were Antigonus I and his
son Demetrius I Poiorcetes; they were defeated by Seleucus I and Lysimachus with elephants
‘gained from Porus after the bate of Hydaspes, in 301 B.C. at the cataclysmic batle of Ipsus
(Benoist-Mechin 244)
Most of the Seperatist Kings, in imitation of Alexander, styled themselves as olfspring of
divinities; Seleucus 1 Nicator “claimed Apollo as his heavenly father,” and Ptolemy 1 Sote (he
epithet means “savior") became son ofthe demigod Heracles (Bosworth 177),

With Alexander lying in state in Alexandria, Egypt, his “body and name were being used


Page 9, Instance 0, Class: Text
to underwrite a regime whose very existence would have been anathema to him” (Bosworth
180). The various kings rejected the idea of oikumene altogether, preferring individual
monarchies. The monarchy would no longer be cemented by culture. Alexander had predicted
this when, om his deathbed, be was asked to whom the empire would be let. The dying king
answered, “To the strongest” (Lipsius 210). Too late had he planned for the future of his
kingdom. War, not oikumene, would now decide its fae


Page 10, Instance 0, Class: Text
Aristotle. Nicomuchean Ethics. Tans. by Terence Irwin, Indianapolis: Hacket, 1985,

Benoist-Mechin, Jacques. Alexander the Great. New York: Hawthorn Books, In. 1966,

Bosworth, A. B. Conguest and Empire: the Reign of Alesander the Great. Cambridge University
Press, 1988,

Hamilton, J. R. Alexander the Great. University of Pitsburgh Press, 1974

“Historia Terrarum.” Burnam W. Reynolds, ed. Professor Press Lt, 1990.

Lipsius, Frank, Alexander the Great, New York: Saturday Review Press, 1974

Plutarch, Twelve Lives. Trans. by John Dryden, Cleveland: Fine Editions Press, 1950


