[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_1instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Image\page_2instance1.jpg]

Page 3, Instance 1, Class: Text
I dedicate this thesis to Elizabeth: thank you.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_4instance1.jpg]

Page 4, Instance 2, Class: Text
ACKHUWICUSCINCILS

This thesis represents the culmination of eleven years of study in Durham
University; it has been challenging, stimulating and tremendously rewarding, and it is
hard to believe that I have actually finally finished. Far too many people have helped with
its production to be named individually, but some are deserving of special praise. Firstly
Hans Van Wees for agreeing to be the external examiner on this thesis, and for his
encouragement after performing the same role on my MA thesis in 2002, and
encouraging me towards continuing studies.

I would also like to thank Elizabeth, for being wonderful; for putting up with me,
and for her constant support and encouragement in our life together. My thanks also to
my parents for their encouragement over the long years; and my brother, John, for his
tireless and I’m happy to say, free, IT support. I must also mention Martin and Sue
Foulkes; Sue for her boundless enthusiasm and encouragement and Martin for his help
and guidance as a study partner during our seven years together in Durham University.

My greatest thanks are reserved, however, for Professor Peter Rhodes; for over a
decade since 1997 Peter has been my lecturer, tutor, supervisor, mentor and for my part at
least, friend. His kindness and patience and academic expertise have been limitless and
invaluable to me over that time, truly I would not have achieved anywhere near the level
af anndamin cumnacna that Tbncren ewe tle mech beeen


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_5instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_6instance1.jpg]

Page 7, Instance 1, Class: Text
REIS EE SWAIN GL OULD OL TIS SUDICRL,

Modern works on Alexander are not difficult to find; books are being published
on the subject at a staggering rate, although they are of vastly differing quality. Books
that specifically focus on military history are, however, another matter. The study of
fighting is, unfortunately, no longer fashionable; it is somewhat appropriate and
satisfying that I complete this work exactly 50 years after Fuller wrote his “generalship”.
Modern historians have tended to focus more on the wider context of warfare, and on
Alexander’s character. There is nothing wrong with this approach, but it is the study of
strategy and tactics that has always been of particular interest to me. I believe firmly that
there is still considerable academic worth in attempting to re-construct Alexander’s great
battles and sieges with the intention of making a determination of exactly how he
managed to conquer most of the known world in little over a decade.


Page 8, Instance 1, Class: Text
The relative lack of modern works on Alexander’s military career is, rath
perversely, good for the student of military history; it forces one to rely heavily upon tt
surviving ancient sources. A considerable amount of tactical and strategic information
contained within the pages of those surviving sources, much of it frequently missed t


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_8instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_9instance1.jpg]

Page 9, Instance 2, Class: Text
source Analysis

One of the very first issues that any historian, ancient or modern, must address is
source analysis. How can we separate later invention from the original contemporary
source; how can we overcome the bias in any source; how can we reconstruct events from
disparate accounts; and of particular interest to military historians (and indeed this thesis),
how can we reconstruct a battle narrative without the benefit of modern communication?
It is the intention of this opening chapter to answer these questions and essentially to set
aut the methadalagical annrnach talan in thie thacte tr the ennerac and enurra analucie !


Page 10, Instance 1, Class: Text
There were also many pamphlets published on Alexander after his death
luding a treatise on the deaths of Alexander and Hephaestion by Ephippus and th¢
rks of a more formal reporting nature like the stathmoi of the Royal surveyors and the
hemerides which was allegedly compiled by Eumenes.* These primary source
vided a rich and wide-ranging pool from which the surviving tradition was able t
aw. Modern historians have always felt a tremendous temptation to trace their effec
on the extant tradition by using the surviving fragments. The method has been t
alyse the surviving fragments and attempt to trace bias and other characteristics whils
nultaneously trying to identify these in the surviving tradition.'® The approach can be
ry enlightening when we have some other verifiable evidence that a particula
gmentary historian was used by a secondary source, as is the case with Arrian fo
ample,'” but when the identification is speculative then it often leaves more question:


Page 10, Instance 2, Class: Text
contemporary orators like Demosthenes.'°

Of the now lost primary contemporary sources, the first to be written was perhap
Anaximenes’ work ‘On Alexander’'' written during Alexander’s life, as wa
Callisthenes’ ‘Deeds of Alexander’ which covered the period at least down to late 33.
(the latest datable fragments describe Gaugamela) and was only cut short by the author’
killing in 327 by Alexander.'* Alexander’s death brought a wealth of material written b:
senior commanders. Onesicritus and Nearchus wrote soon after the king’s death, an
Ptolemy wrote before 283 (the date of his own death) but probably fairly close to it.!
Aristobulus composed his history at some point after the battle of Ipsus in 301
contemporary with Cleitarchus’ work which was the most widely read on the subject it


Page 10, Instance 3, Class: Text
The major problem with this approach to Alexander historiography is that we
have very little opportunity to examine a large section of primary source against the
secondary tradition. One of the rare instances where we can do this is with Nearchus
account of his voyage from India to Susa which forms the narrative base for the seconc
half of Arrian’s Indica.'® To act as a control sample we also have large sections of Strabc
where Nearchus was also the primary source. A similar exercise can be conducted with
Aristobulus, although less successfully as we do not have as much surviving material


Page 10, Instance 4, Class: Text
surviving inscriptions; numismatic evidence is sparse,’ but there are a few references in
-ontemporary orators like Demosthenes.'”


Page 10, Instance 5, Class: Text
Dahmen, 2007.

’ Demosthenes 18.270; Aeschines 3.133, 3.160-164, 3.165; Dinarchus 1.34. ef Worthington, 2003, 6.
| The surviving fragments are too sparse to support any conclusion as to its aim or tone (or indeed its
uality). Bosworth, 2003b, 14,

Pearson, 1960, 22-49; Badian, 1964, 251-2.

Cf. p142 n.255.

 Badian, 1965c, 1-8; Bosworth, 2003b, 7.

' Bosworth, 1988b, ch.7.

’ Bosworth, 2003b, 8.

’ Arrian preface 1 where he explicitly names his sources, and his (somewhat naive) reasons for their
lection.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_10instance6.jpg]

Page 11, Instance 1, Class: Text
from him to work with.'? More often than not this approach is very difficult due to the
lack of surviving material, and the tangential material often preserved.

Many secondary authors were very selective in citing their sources and only tend
to do so either when they are in disagreement or when the validity of what they are
quoting is in question and they are seeking to try to remove any blame from themselves
for inaccurate information. As a result of this, when sources are named it is usually where
they were likely incorrect; material that was sober and informative would simply be
ananiad withant citatian ar cammant 20


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_11instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_12instance1.jpg]

Page 12, Instance 2, Class: Text
Alexander is echoed by Plutarch, who also related the story of the ravens, although this
time without citation.” Strabo’s narrative of the Siwah episode culminates in the
statement that Alexander was indeed the son of Zeus, a theme no doubt also coming from
Clallicthanec’? work


Page 13, Instance 1, Class: Text
timate source may have been. In all likelihood he had several primary sources himself
robably Callisthenes, Onesicritus and Nearchus were major providers of information fot
‘leitarchus, as were the large number of Macedonian veterans in Alexandria at the time
f his writing. Secondly we do not have enough surviving material to be able to condemr
‘leitarchus absolutely: the fragments may well be unrepresentative. The final poin
ollows from that: as noted above, primary sources are only usually cited in order tc
liscredit them and make the secondary author seem more authoritative. This tendency
vould lead directly to only negative material being preserved and therefore a conclusior
ased upon this material is dangerous.°” Following this, however, we can say that there
vas evidently a fair amount of negative and sensationalist material in Cleitarchus:
therwise later historians would have used a different primary source in order to prove


Page 13, Instance 2, Class: Text
The general impression conveyed by fragmentary material may well be accurate,
but it is unlikely to tell the whole story. If, for example, we were to have citations in
Athenaeus and Plutarch’s On the Malice of Herodotus, we would come to the same
conclusion about the father of history as some do of Cleitarchus (and Callisthenes); that
his history was filled with malice and trivialities and bias. It would certainly be true to
say that such things exist within Herodotus, but not that it is the main thrust of His


Page 13, Instance 3, Class: Text
In order to make a proper judgement of Cleitarchus, more data are required.
Aodern source analysis has convincingly established that large sections of both Diodorus
nd Curtius are so similar that the only realistic conclusion is that they derived from the
ame primary source. The same material is also detectable in both Justin and the extant
ections of the Metz Epitome. A common tradition has long been recognised and the term
vulgate’,?? albeit unsatisfactory because of its negative assumption, has been applied to
nis tradition.“° It would be entirely incorrect to conclude, however, that a historian from
he vulgate tradition never used a primary source from outside of that tradition, e.g.
tolemy or Aristobulus: Plutarch, for example, frequently uses sources that are clearly
ifferent from the vulgate and therefore cannot always be considered to be part of that
‘adition.*’ As Bosworth notes, the term vulgate does not imply a single primary source,
eat mernthe mee oe kt (‘<i ck gece


Page 14, Instance 1, Class: Text
According to Cleitarchus, 80,000 Indians
were slaughtered in this area and many
captives auctioned off as slaves.


Page 14, Instance 2, Class: Text
The passage of Curtius/Cleitarchus is clearly the source as the equivalent passage
Niadanie:


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_14instance3.jpg]

Page 14, Instance 4, Class: Text
Next he ravaged the kingdom of Sambus. He enslaved t
population of most of the cities and, after destroying th
cities, killed more than eight thousand of the natives. H

inflicted a similar disaster upon the tribe of the Brahmir

as they are called; the survivors came supplicating hin
with branches in their hands, and punishing the most
guilty he forgave the rest. King Sambus fled with thirt
elephants into the country beyond the Indus and escape


Page 14, Instance 5, Class: Text
According to Cleitarchus, 80,000 Indians
were slaughtered in this area and many
captives auctioned off as slaves.
le passage of Curtius/Cleitarchus is clearly the source as the equivalent passag:


Page 15, Instance 1, Class: Text
Wherever Ptolemy and Aristobulus in their histories
of Alexander, the son of Philip, have given the same
account, I have followed it on the assumption of its
accuracy; where their facts differ I have chosen what I
feel to be the more probable and interesting.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_15instance2.jpg]

Page 16, Instance 1, Class: Text
eee eee eee ee ee ee enn one ee ee ee eee eee eee eee aie eee een
he command structure were present, ilarchs and commanders of the allied and mercenary
contingents for example.

This information transfer is of fundamental importance to the surviving material
hat we have. It means that those secondary sources that used individuals like Ptolemy,
Aristobulus and Nearchus who were eye witnesses and present at senior meetings shoul
carry considerable weight with us. I would go as far as to say that our general dispositior
should be to accept what they say, except where there is an evident aberration, (as with
he Persian troop numbers at Gaugamela where Arrian notes 40,000 cavalry and
1,000,000 infantry), or where we can demonstrate that another source provides superio1


Page 16, Instance 2, Class: Text
major battle of Alexander’s career® (with the exception of the Hydaspes), and we can
assume that plans were discussed in some detail at these meetings, ensuring that all
commanders were kept informed of events on the campaign, even those outside of their
immediate sphere of influence. Arrian tells us that before Gaugamela:”°


Page 16, Instance 3, Class: Text
It is difficult, and fundamentally foolish, of an historian to make a carte blanche
laim that any given historian is always right and another always wrong; but there are
ome generalisations that we can make, however. With regard to topography we car
~asonably assume that those who were present, or who were using a source that wa
resent, are more likely to preserve the most accurate information. My general stance
lerefore, is to believe Arrian where there is a discrepancy with the Vulgate and hi:
scount is credible. I do not completely reject the latter tradition, however, as there nc
oubt are times when Arrian is not correct and the Vulgate topography fits better with th
Irviving narratives.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_16instance4.jpg]

Page 17, Instance 1, Class: Text
We can also say that sources who provide a more detailed analysis based upon
primary eye witness testimony are also more likely to be accurate and trustworthy than
those who are more cursory and rely on poorer quality primary sources. These are
arguments essentially for placing a fair degree of trust in Arrian, but all historians, both
modern and ancient, are prone to bias; it is inevitable and a fact of human nature. As
historians we must be constantly aware of this tendency which frequently manifests itself
in literary invention of later writers. An example of this can be seen in the attitudes to
Parmenio. Parmenio, along with his son Philotas, was executed on the orders of
Alexander; an act whose origins probably lay in Alexander’s growing isolation and
mictrict of thase around him. norticularly thace who were not hic contemnoraries.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_17instance2.jpg]

Page 17, Instance 3, Class: Text
of a specific size. My general approach is to reject option one as the sources frequently
pive us very different troop numbers (this option would be available for periods where we
only have one source). Option two is a strong theme throughout the thesis; both in terms
of numbers and tactical reconstructions. At the Granicus, for example, I think the most
militarily probable theory, based upon what we know of Alexander’s tactics elsewhere,
and the fact that we have to completely different accounts, is that both are correct and
need to be reconciled into a single coherent theory, as I have tried to do. Option three is
possible on occasions, particularly with regard to the pezhetairoi. We know there were
1500 men per taxis, so if three taxeis are mentioned we can reasonably assume that 4500
heavy infantry were present. This argument hardly ever works for the Persian order of
battle as we have less general knowledge of the command structure. My own option four
is applicable in some instances: for example the only reason we know there were 3000
nypaspists is that their three taxeis take up the same frontage as two taxeis of pezhetairoi,


Page 18, Instance 1, Class: Text
Diodorus has no such debate, but his account of the battle is as if the advice were actec
upon. We must note, as argued below pp. 51-2, that Ptolemy was fighting in roughly the
same area as Alexander, the right wing, and so Ptolemy was probably also glorifying hi
own role in the battle, as well as that of the king, and not simply criticising Parmenio.°
He may also simply have had less knowledge of events on the left, and have chosen tc
concentrate on events that he was directly involved in. At the Granicus, Callisthenes wa
Arrian’s source for at least the debate with Parmenio.™ Callisthenes is known to have
been hostile to Parmenio and is probably the source for all five of the dialogues betweer
Alexander and the old general that show him as being overly cautious, set agains


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_18instance2.jpg]

Page 19, Instance 1, Class: Text
rleitarchus. The incident of the call for help by Parmenio, just after Alexander began the
ursuit of Darius,” is also interesting. Again, it shows no malice towards Parmenio at all.
ut simply presents a picture of the Thessalians in genuine difficulty asking for help.
Jiodorus, in common with Arrian, simply presents Alexander’s response withou!
comment, unlike Plutarch and Curtius who note Alexander’s frustration. Interestingly.
ong with Diodorus’ attributing no blame to Parmenio for this incident, he also attributes
10 blame to Alexander.’> Diodorus’ account is far less useful than Curtius or Arrian, bu'
urely deserves more than to be called “childish and worthless” by Hammond.”


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_19instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_20instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_21instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_22instance1.jpg]

Page 22, Instance 2, Class: Text
It may seem logical that the reconstruction of a battle narrative should come only
after the core of factual events has been established; but I do not believe this should
always be the case. Some core events can only be established as the battle narrative
develops: in this case, the principle of inherent military probability is a powerful one.
This concept was first suggested by Burne in his work on the Agincourt campaign, but I
think it is relevant and applicably to all periods of history, and is certainly becoming
more widely used.*4 Essentially this principle states that when attempting to reconstruct
an ancient battle we should try and put ourselves in the position of the commander, albeit
briefly, and consider the most likely action. This will be partly based upon the tactics
demonstrated in other encounters, and bears great fruit with the career of Alexander as he
was such a successful recycler of tactics and strategies. By using this principle we can
reasonably speculate that Arrian, for example, may be correct in some elements of his
narrative, Curtius etc. in others. This principle should be used as a last resort when other,
more academically rigorous methods have failed, as we have two separate and
incompatible pictures of events, or with points of fine detail. We should recognise,
however, that history is very far from an exact science and we can ultimately do no better


Page 23, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘aken together with Thucydides, description of the use of fire at Delium 424/3” we cat
emonstrate, I think, by using the principle of inherent military probability tha
\lexander was trying to repeat an historically successful tactic, rather than the source:
1aking a mistake or inventing material in order to provide a more lurid account.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_23instance2.jpg]

Page 24, Instance 1, Class: Text
actics is of no lesser academic value than one primarily of strategy, and there was (and
is) greater scope for originality with my approach given the lack of existing studies.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_25instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_26instance0.jpg]

Page 27, Instance 1, Class: Text
® Arrian 1.1.4-1.9.8, The Illyrian campaign to the fall of Thebes.

5! Strabo 7.3.8ff; Diodorus 17.8.1 ff. Curtius’ account does not survive.

% Arrian 1.2.7.

9 Arrian 1.4.6.

* Bosworth, 1980, 51, believes that this whole section is taken directly from Ptolemy and I see no reason to
dissent. Papazoglu, 1978, 25, n.39, and Pearson, 1960, 205f, also take this line: contra Hammond, 1974, 77,
who sees both Ptolemy and Aristobulus as Arrian’s sources for this section.

% Arrian 1.1.4; Diodorus 17.3.5; Ashley, 1998, 166.

96 Arrian 1.1.4.

*” Bosworth, 1980, 52; Papazoglu, 1978, 25ff; for some general information on the Triballians and their
(little known) history.

% Arrian 1.1.5.

® Arrian, 1.5.3; Bosworth, 1980, 52.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_27instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_28instance1.jpg]

Page 28, Instance 2, Class: Text
109 Apparently this was the less famous of the two cities bearing that name; see Papazoglu, 1978, 29-30.

'l Ashley, 1998, 167-8, suggests that Alexander headed east from Amphipolis and only tumed north after
crossing the Nestos River, then heading to Philippopolis. Wilcken, 1932, 67, takes a similar line. This does
not allow for passing Mt. Orbelus and Philippi on his left as explicitly stated in Arrian 1.1.5. Bosworth
1980, 54, sees Mt. Orbelus as being much like Mt. Haemus, that is to say referring to an entire range rather
than an individual mountain.

0? Arrian 1.1.5.

3 Ashley, 1998, 168 notes 20miles (32km) but a glance at Barrington suggests closer to 115km. see p.31
for a possible reason for the leisurely pace.

104 Bosworth, 1980, 54; see also Ashley, 1998, 168; Bosworth, 1988, 29; Hammond, 1980b, 46.

105 Ashley, 1998, 168.

16 Wilcken, 1932, 67; and Hamilton, 1969, 46; support the Shipka pass as the location of the encounter.
Bloedow, 1996, 120; notes that the Shipka pass is at a height of 2437m and the Trojan pass at 1051m,
perhaps further indicating the Shipka pass is the correct location, being higher and perhaps, therefore, more
defensible.

107 Arrian 1.1.7-1.1.9; the stratagem of the Thracians and Alexander’s response to it recur in Polyaenus,
4.3.11. The only real difference between the accounts of Arrian and Polyaenus is that the later makes the
wagons heavy laden, probably to make the Thracian plan, and Alexander's response, more impressive,
Hammond, 1996, 37, argues that the two accounts have the same source due to their striking similarities.

108 Arrian 1.1.7.


Page 29, Instance 1, Class: Text
ind Arrian does indeed imply exactly that; that Alexander had guessed what the
[Thracians’ intentions were, given his ordered countermeasures to his troops.!!'
Jammond!! argued that they in fact intended to do both, that a defensive palisade hac
yeen organised behind the wagons that were to be sent down the slope: it is difficult tc
magine, first of all, how the Thracians physically got so many wagons into the pas:
where space must have been very limited; and, of course, this is not how Arrian describe:


Page 29, Instance 2, Class: Text
Arrian leaves us in no doubt that the wagons were used as projectiles, but exactly
how is far less clear. He constantly refers to them in the plural:'!” is this intended to mean
that several were sent down simultaneously, side by side as it were, or should it be taken
to mean one after the other? The presumed narrowness of the pass would tend to preclude
the former, and therefore we should accept that several wagons were sent down the slope
consecutively. Bloedow raised a further problem:''* wagons travelling down a rocky
slope''® would not travel in a straight line for very long, even if their steering
mechanisms were fixed in place. It would seem that the only way for the wagons to have
been used effectively as weapons is if they were in fact manned, to ensure that they
actually reached the Macedonians without harmlessly crashing into the walls of the pass;


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_29instance3.jpg]

Page 30, Instance 1, Class: Text
'23 T orimer, 1947, 76, n.3.
ie Markle, 1978, 483-497,

136 Markle, 1978, 493.

” It should be noted that there is no evidence that Philip or Alexander ever ordered the production of large
numbers of hoplite panoplies for the heavy infantry: Manti, 1994, 88. The expense alone would have been
prohibitive, especially early in Alexander’s reign when we know that gold was scarce. If Markle is correct
that the Macedonians were not always equipped with the sarissa then two possibilities present themselves:
either thousands of panoplies of armour (shields, spear etc.) were made and transported all across Asia
(which I do not believe) or only spears were transported (the logistics of this would have been relatively
simple, certainly compared to transporting full panoplies of hoplite equipment. If this is the case then
during the set-piece battles where the sarissa was not used the Macedonians would have been equipped in
the same way in terms of defensive equipment, and would have carried a hoplite spear. During occasions
where hoplite shields were required and the mercenaries and allies were not employed (e.g. here) the
shields could have been commandeered and returned after use. Thousands of panoplies would not have
been required as not all of the heavy infantry would have been able to operate in such a limited space as in
this pass.

7 Tf this theory is correct, and I suspect that on occasion the pezhetairoi were equipped as regular hoplites,
I would add that the sarissa was unlikely to have been used at the Hydaspes either, given the difficult night
time river crossing.
28 Arrian 1.2.1.
'29 Bosworth, 1980, 56; Papazoglu, 1978, 30-31; although Green, 1991, 127 seems more confident
identifying it as the River Yantra and Hammond, 1980b, 46 identifies it with the Rositsa.

Aerwinn 199


Page 30, Instance 2, Class: Text
hat the Macedonian shield was made of bronze and that it was eight palms in width and
10t too hollow. There seems little doubt that the Greek palm equated to 7.6cm,'” so the
shield was 61cm in diameter. The diameter of hoplite shields excavated at Olympia
anged from 78.7 to 99.8cm.'*3 Markle'™* proposed that the sarissa would not have been
he only weapon employed by the heavy infantry; he believed that they did not use it at
he Granicus or at Issus, and that infantry that accompanied Alexander on operations that
equired speed and endurance would also not have carried the sarissa and small shield. He
rgued that at these times, they would be equipped as regular hoplites, with a spear and
1oplite shield.'”* If it is the case that regular hoplite shields were, on occasion,'”° used by
he Macedonian heavy infantry, then lying prone on the ground with the large shield
-overing the head and torso seems plausible, and whilst no fatalities were reported by
Arrian, one can only guess at the numbers of broken limbs that would have resulted.'?”


Page 30, Instance 3, Class: Text
Once Alexander had crossed the Haemus range he continued in a northerl:
irection into the lands of the Triballians,!® arriving at the River Lyginus, three day
arch from the Danube. The River Lyginus makes this one appearance in history and it
cation cannot be identified with any certainty,'?’ other than to say that it was locate
uth of the Danube and probably fairly close to it, given Alexander’s apparently slov
arch on the campaign to this point. Arrian'*® then tells us that Syrmus, king of th
riballians, had known of Alexander’s movements for some time and had evacuated |
at of his army, along with the non-combatants, to Peuce Island. The rest of th
riballian army circled in behind Alexander, taking up a position on the River Lyginus
fter Alexander had continued to march north. There are several points of interest here


Page 31, Instance 1, Class: Text
firstly Syrmus shows an impressive appreciation of the need for military intelligence in
an age when it was often very limited.'*’ The second is the location of Peuce Island:'*?
this has consistently eluded scholars; there was an island of that name in the Danube
delta; Strabo mentions it:'*? but there is no evidence, other than the name of the island,
that Alexander went anywhere near the Danube delta.'** Papazoglu identifies two
noccible solutions: !2>


Page 31, Instance 2, Class: Text
131 See, for example, Alexander’s failure to appreciate the location of Darius before the battle of Issus, or
his failure to realise his position had been turned here.
'32 Hammond in Hammond and Walbank, 1988, 35 notes that Peuce Island can be translated as Pine Tree
Island. Green, 1991, 127 notes that this was the island where Darius I had built a pontoon bridge in 514-13
to cross the Danube.
'33 Strabo 7.3.15; the passage ultimately derives from Ptolemy: Bosworth, 1980, 57.
'34 Indeed the territory of the Triballi was some distance to the west of the delta: cf. Papazoglu, 1978, 31ff,
for a fuller discussion of the Triballi tribal areas.
'°5 Papazoglu, 1978, 32, after first dismissing the possibility that there were two islands of the same name.
136 Bosworth, 1980, 57.
'57 Ashley, 1998, 168; Bosworth, 1980, 57; Papazogiu, 1978, 32.
'38 The Macedonians showed no signs of distress or panic at their lines of supply and communication being
severed, the same in fact as occurred before the battle of Issus.

hextan 144


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_31instance3.jpg]

Page 32, Instance 1, Class: Text
Deployed in front of Alexander’s heavy infantry were the archers and slingers
ith orders to advance “at the double and discharge their missiles in the hope of drawing
e enemy from the shelter of the wood into open ground”.!”


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_32instance2.jpg]

Page 32, Instance 3, Class: Text
Alexander then marched north, reaching the Danube three days after the battle,“
arriving at a prearranged rendezvous with part of the fleet. The fleet must have been
dispatched from Macedonia at the outset of the campaign and this probably explains why
Alexander’s pace was so leisurely; he wanted to give his navy time to arrive. He then
manned the ships and attempted to force a landing on Peuce Island, where the remaining
Triballians and Thracians had taken refuge, but the areas suitable for landing were either
too heavily defended or else too steep to disembark troops; the strong current was also a
significant factor. After failure to land, Alexander decided to cross the Danube and


Page 32, Instance 4, Class: Text
° Arrian 1.2.2.

' Devine, 1988, 3.

? Arrian 1.2.3; Bosworth, 1980, 57, notes that Philotas, later commander of all of the Companion Cavalry,
here only given a portion of them: this limited command recurs in Illyria, (Arrian 1.5.9) and there is no

yidence of his promotion before the crossing of the Hellespont, (Diodorus, 17.17.4).

> Both men are mentioned at ilarchs at Gaugamela (Arrian 3.11.8) but are otherwise fairly obscure,

osworth, 1980, 58; for Heraclides and Sopolis see Heckel, 1992, 348 and 351 respectively.

* Arrian 1.2.6 likely uses the term akontismos generally, rather than referring to horse archers.

> Bosworth, 1980, 58.

© Bosworth, 1980, 59f

7 Arrian 1.15.6.


Page 33, Instance 1, Class: Text
campaign against the Getae instead.'"° This defeat by natural barrier, as it were, is
extremely unusual; we can only speculate that if this incident had occurred later in
Alexander’s life he would not have given up so easily.


Page 34, Instance 1, Class: Text
that the Autariatae were planning to attack Alexander whilst on the march.'*° Alexander,
seeking allies, set off for his long-time friend Langarus of the Agrianes.


Page 34, Instance 2, Class: Text
'® Arrian 1.5.1; Bosworth, 1980, 65-6, locates the Paeones north of Macedonia between the Axius and
Strymon Rivers, with the Agrianes occupying the north-eastern area on Paeonia. Cleitus probably ruled the
Dardani between the modern Drin (the longest river in Albania, highlighted on the left of fig. 3 below) and
Crna Rivers (the ancient Thracian Erigon River, meaning Black River, which runs through much of the
south and west of modern Macedonia). This area was on (ancient) Macedonia’s northern border; Hammond
and Walbank, 1988, 40, note that this area is in modern Kosovo; they also note that the Taulantians were
located around Tirana. Bosworth, 1980, 66, mistakenly places them around Epidamnus. Hammond, 1974,
78, locates the Autariatae to the north of Albania.

'S7 Arian 1.5.1; he did so with considerable success, 1.5.3.

'®8 Although Hammond in Hammond and Walbank, 1988, 39, sees the delay occurring before Alexander
set off for Langarus.

'S? Hammond, 1987, 38.

‘© Hammond in Hammond and Walbank, 1988, 41. The only other two instances of secondary missions
before 331 were both in 334 when Alexander was at Ephesus. Parmenio was sent with 5,200 troops to
accept the surrender of the cities of Magnesia and Tralles, whilst at the same time Alcimachus was
dispatched with a similar number to the Aetolian and Ionian cities still loyal to the Persians; Arrian 1.18.1.
‘61 Arrian 1.1.4. Bosworth, 1980, 52.

162 Curtius 3.10.9.

163 Arrian 1.5.5.

164 Livy 31.39.3-6. Bosworth, 1980, 68, has Alexander take this route; contra Hammond, 1974, 78, n.29,
and Hammond in Hammond and Walbank, 1988, 40-1, has Alexander march south-west via Astibus to
Stobi, near the confluence of the Axius and Erigon, then via Prilep and the Monastir gap into Lyncus. This
route, if taken, was a result of Alexander’s mistaken guess that Cleitus and Glaucias were marching south
to the plain of Koritsa. Finding this area secure, Alexander then marched north-west to Pellium. The
nrahlem ic that thie hac him travelling enmea dictannra fenm tha Deltann Diver Tha anlu infarmatinn nrnwvided


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_35instance1.jpg]

Page 36, Instance 1, Class: Text
Alexander, now isolated and apparently with supplies running low,'”* dispatches
ilotas with some cavalry and the baggage train to forage, probably in the plain o
orce, 8km north-west of Pellium.'” This was an enormous and foolish risk on the pat
Alexander; Glaucias could, if not for a timely intervention by Alexander, hav
stroyed Alexander’s baggage train and many of his best cavalrymen. The fact that th
pedition occurred at all shows how very low on supplies the Macedonians were at thi


Page 36, Instance 2, Class: Text
strongly indicates either that the city was inaccessible for traditional siege equipment, or
that he did not have his full siege train with him at this time; although he certainly had
some catapults with him a few days later, see below. The following day Glaucias arrived
with the Taulantians, apparently a large force,!”° leaving Alexander in a very exposed
position. He could not press the attack on the city for fear the Taulantians would attack
his flanks, and he could not attack this new much larger force for fear of a sortie from the
city. If Alexander knew of the imminent arrival of Glaucias, then to advance upon the
city was a significant tactical mistake; if he did not, then Philotas’ mission was a singular
failure and is an example of the generally poor quality of military intelligence in ancient


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_36instance3.jpg]

Page 36, Instance 4, Class: Text
Alexander could not simply withdraw from the area: this would have involve
ossing any one of a number of narrow passes'” with the result that the rear of hi
lumn would be badly exposed to attack. His solution was to mesmerise the Dardanian
id Taulantians with a magnificent display of parade ground drill. The heavy infantry
ere drawn up with a “depth of 120 files”,'’° which would have given a frontage of 106
en.'”” There are two movements described in Arrian:'”* the first involved the use of ;
earhead or wedge formation.” This involved a march towards the “first hills”
esumably those to the north occupied by the Taulantians: This manoeuvre wa:
nducted in absolute silence.!®° Hammond!®! suggested that this not only resulted in |
ithdrawal of the Taulantians from the northern hills, but encouraged the Dardanians it
e southern hills to attack Alexander’s flanks. The heavy infantry, en masse, then turne:


Page 37, Instance 1, Class: Text
bout 180 degrees and raised a battle cry that was enough to rout the Dardanians. Arrian
escribes the manoeuvre: “to turn now to the right and again to the left the line of
iterlocking pikes”. '®2


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_37instance2.jpg]

Page 38, Instance 1, Class: Text
without significant mistakes. Burn’s assertion that “there is no trace of development in
Alexander’s generalship; in this twenty-first year of his age he is completely mature”!”! is
certainly an exaggeration.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_38instance2.jpg]

Page 39, Instance 1, Class: Text
If the Balkan campaign was conducted at a relatively sedate pace, the march to
hebes was its antithesis; Alexander covered an astonishing 390km in thirteen days,'*
itching the Thebans completely by surprise, and in doing so preventing the possibility of
e rebellion spreading beyond the walls of Thebes.!” :


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_39instance2.jpg]

Page 40, Instance 1, Class: Text
Macedonian losses were significant, 500 dead, but Theban losses far worse, 7,000
1 and 30,000 sold into slavery, bringing Alexander a much needed injection of 440


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_40instance2.jpg]

Page 41, Instance 1, Class: Text
disappointed by the result. He got his psychological impact on the remaining Greek city
states, received a much needed cash injection (or perhaps ‘fiscal stimulus’ as we may say
these days) whilst remaining relatively free of direct blame, essentially a win win for the
young king. Whilst the Greeks were cowed by the act, they certainly appeared to blame
Alexander for the destruction of Thebes; the act, deliberate or otherwise, meant that
Alexander would never be truly accepted by the Greeks, particularly the Athenians. He
had proved himself to be a barbarian by perpetrating such an act, although I would note
again that the Athenians did not join Agis’ revolt in 331; the fear of a repeat of the fate of
Thebes was still strong even five years after the event.

Errington”’’ essentially accused Ptolemy of deliberately altering events to make
Perdiccas responsible for the destruction of the city. Perdiccas and Ptolemy were rivals in
the period after Alexander’s death, Perdiccas invaded Egypt in 320 but was killed by his
own sub-commanders soon after.” Thus if Ptolemy’s history had been written around
this time we can imagine a political reason for such an act on the part of Ptolemy. None,
however, of the potential dates for Ptolemy’s history are this early, which reduces
Ptolemy’s potential political justification for attacking Perdiccas. Besides this general
point, Ptolemy explicitly tells us that Perdiccas was wounded in the initial stages of the
combat and was removed from the field, taking no further part at all; any bias in
Ptolemy’s account is not anti-Perdiccas but is in fact pro-Alexander.”!° Ptolemy has
Alexander giving the Thebans every chance to surrender and essentially blames them for
their fate. I see no reason, therefore, to dismiss Arrian’s account on the grounds of bias
against one of the protagonists; Ptolemy could easily be blamed, however, for wishing to
shift blame away from Alexander for an event that shocked the whole of the Greek world.


Page 41, Instance 2, Class: Text
disappointed by the result. He got his psychological impact on the remaining Greek city
states, received a much needed cash injection (or perhaps ‘fiscal stimulus’ as we may say
these days) whilst remaining relatively free of direct blame, essentially a win win for the
young king. Whilst the Greeks were cowed by the act, they certainly appeared to blame
Alexander for the destruction of Thebes; the act, deliberate or otherwise, meant that
Alexander would never be truly accepted by the Greeks, particularly the Athenians. He
had proved himself to be a barbarian by perpetrating such an act, although I would note
again that the Athenians did not join Agis’ revolt in 331; the fear of a repeat of the fate of
Thebes was still strong even five years after the event.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_42instance1.jpg]

Page 43, Instance 1, Class: Text
Chapter 2
The Battle of the Granicus River: 334
The battle of the Granicus River is, as Hammond notes:”"! “the most puzzling of
Alexander’s battles”. The problems themselves are threefold: military, literary and
topographical; each of these will be dealt with separately as each must be understood in
order to interpret this battle. It would seem logical that an understanding of the terrain
should be our starting point, as this forms the backdrop to the tactics of both sides.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_43instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_44instance1.jpg]

Page 44, Instance 2, Class: Text
ground some way bDenind the river.” fFuiutarch describes this higher ground as “a
ridge”””? and Diodorus says they were stationed on “the last slope of the hills”,?”?
implying that although this area was higher than the plain it was hardly precipitous.
Hammond believes that the distance between the foothills where the infantry were
stationed and the riverbank “cannot have been less than 100m”.2%* As will hopefully
become clear later in this chapter, it seems likely that the distance was considerably more
than that. Bosworth points out?* that the foothills are more like 1.5-2km east of the river,
although Janke’ reported a series of low undulations beginning 300-400 m from the
river, and extending several km to the east.7”’

On his visit to the site of the battle in 1976, Hammond noticed the growth of a
considerable amount of vegetation along the banks of the river.?”8 It can be reasonably
assumed that no such veoetatinn evictad tn 224 ne tha Darcian eammandere caw


Page 45, Instance 1, Class: Text
Arrian, who is as interested as anyone in the heroic image of Alexander, does not
exaggerate the difficulty of the terrain in order to make Alexander’s achievements more


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_45instance2.jpg]

Page 45, Instance 3, Class: Text
anewpess SME eons Ss
35 The lake of Ece Gol is nowhere mentioned in ancient sources; Foss, 1977, 500.

36 Janke, 1904, 137ff; Judeich, 1908 385f% Hammond 1980, 78, n.15.

237 Hammond, 1980, 78.

38 Foss, 1977, 500, concedes that the river may have changed course in areas closer to the coast but not in
the area under consideration.

39 Any more than this would be difficult to accept.

*# Badian, 1980, 282, following Foss, 1977, 500, takes this line, that the course has not changed.

41 Arrian 1.12.6-7; see also Bosworth, 1980, 107-109.

242 “Arishe was located 7-8km due east of Abydus in an undulating plain well suited to accommodate a
large army”, Bosworth, 1980, 107; cf. Leaf, 1923, 109

43 Alexander passed by Lampsacus on his second day’s march, apparently not stopping or entering the city.
This sheds no light at all on the story from Pausanias 6.18.2-4, that Alexander had decided to destroy
Lampsacus for Medism but was persuaded against this course of action by Anaximenes, himself a
Lampsacene. Badian, 1966, 63 n.32, suggested that Lampsacus was prepared to resist Alexander; this is


Page 46, Instance 1, Class: Text
pri SS
xtremely unlikely, however, given that Alexander did not stop to capture the city, and he is highly unlikely
y have left an enemy stronghold in his rear so close to an expected encounter with a sizeable Persian army.
* Xen. Hell. 5.1.25.

> Homer, Iliad, 2.835.

® Bosworth, 1980, 107.

7 Janke, 1904, 137ff. This is the theory that Foss, 1977, 497 followed.

® Bosworth, 1980, 108 states that “There is, however, an intractable difficulty. Arrian says explicitly that
ie river discharges into the Propontis ~ ‘between the Hellespont and the Euxine’. If the emendation
>raktidi for prosaktidi) is accepted, we must ccredit Arrian with a glaring error. Freinsheim’s emendation
ould therefore be rejected and with it the theory that Alexander’s inland turn from Lampsacus”.

9 Arrian 1.12.6.

° This would essentially be the theory of Janke and Foss (noted above) who believe that Alexander moved
land at Lampsacus or Percote/Practius, towards the Granicus.

! Bosworth, 1980, 108.

2 Diodorus 17.19-21; Arrian 1.13-16; Plutarch Alex. 16; Justin 11.6.8-13.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_46instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_47instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_48instance1.jpg]

Page 48, Instance 2, Class: Text
53 Diodorus 17.19.1-2; with the infantry presumably behind them.

54 For a discussion of Persian tactics see pp. 34-5.

55 Badian, 1977, 284; this argument, that the Persians were set back from the river, runs contrary to
Hammond, 1980, 81 n.22, and Harl, 1997, 309, who argue that the Persians’ being lined up along the river
bank was entirely sensible, given their tactics, see later. Badian also points out, to his credit, although to the
significant detriment to his argument at this point, that a Persian cavalry line set up to defend a river
crossing would not have been unique, they did so at the battle of the Centrites river; Badian, 1977, 277
n.24; Xenophon. Anab. 4.3.

56 Judeich, 1908, 372-97.

57 Diodorus 17.19.3.

58 As compared to the evening in Arrian’s account: see later.

°° Perhaps 9,000 heavy infantry, 3,000 hypaspists, 4,000 cavalry and 1,000 Agrianians and archers. This
would be the primarily Macedonian core of the army.

6 Diodorus 17.19.4.

61 And no doubt wanted the glory of killing Alexander to fall to one of their own, rather than to one Greek
mercenary infantry.


Page 49, Instance 1, Class: Text
Diodorus then gives us the Persian order of battle.2°? Memnon of Rhodes anc
rsamenes (=Arsames), satrap of Cilicia,” held the Persian left wing, each commanding
is own cavalry.?™ Next to them was Arsites, the satrap of Hellespontine Phrygia.
ommanding the Paphlagonian cavalry. Then came Spithrobates (=Spithridates), satrap ot
ydia and Ionia,”® at the head of the Hyrcanian cavalry. Rheomithres held the Persiar
ght wing and was in command of 1,000 Medes, 2,000 Bactrians and 2,000 othe:
nspecified cavalry.” We are also told that the centre of the Persian line was occupiec
y “other national contingents” who were “numerous and picked for their valour”.””” Ir
tal there were 10,000 Persian cavalry and around 100,000 infantry, although these, o!
wireea were withheld fram the main hattl, 268


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_49instance2.jpg]

Page 50, Instance 1, Class: Text
designed to add to Alexander’s heroism, “ranks in both armies cried out at the superlative
display of prowess”.?”?


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_50instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_51instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_52instance1.jpg]

Page 52, Instance 2, Class: Text
EDIE, Ute MOM Whe extreme leit to tine centre. ine Fersians are depicted as positioning
heir cavalry, undoubtedly their strength, along the bank “on a very broad front”. Har
assumes that they were drawn up 8 deep, based upon Polybius’ assumptions of the
Persian dispositions at Issus the following year. This would result in 20,000 cavalry
occupying a 4.5km frontage,”®* with the infantry being drawn up “in the rear”.”*? This
dositioning of the Persian cavalry along the banks of the river is one of the greates'
oroblems with Arrian’s account of the battle: it is sometimes resolved, as in Badian,””” by
suggesting that they were in fact stationed a few hundred metres back from the river
sanks. That they were stationed “on the bank parallel to the river” is stated quite
>xplicitly by Arrian; any attempt to move them on to the plain, according to Hammond,
‘runs counter to the texts”.””! Harl, however, explains this unusual alignment by noting
hat the Persian cavalry at this time were in fact light cavalry, suited for using javelins
ind sabres, not at all heavily armed, and thus not suited for a charge against the
Macedonian Companion Cavalry.*” It is also worth noting that, given the Persian
ntention to use missile weapons against the Macedonians, coupled with the inevitability
hat the Macedonian cavalry charge would be broken by the river and the steep eastern
yanks, there was in fact little danger to the Persian cavalry; their defensive position was


Page 53, Instance 1, Class: Text
What ensued was vicious hand-to-hand combat in which the Macedonian troops
m to have suffered badly from a “continuous volley of missiles from the Persians” and
> from the disadvantages of the terrain. The lead troops were forced back towards the
erbed and into Alexander and the Companion Cavalry still struggling to get up one of


Page 53, Instance 2, Class: Text
infantry.?”’ If we take Berve’s lead and assume that this Ptolemy was not the otherwise
unknown son of Philip, but was in fact Ptolemy, son of Lagus’”® (unlike Berve’s
suggestion)”””, then we could be some small way towards understanding this battle. A
fuller explanation is given in my tentative new theory presented at the end of this chapter.


Page 53, Instance 3, Class: Text
ee
7 Berve, 1926, 1.22.4-7
The historian, and Arrian’s primary source. .
To clarify, Berve believed that this Ptolemy was not the son of Philip; I have gone further by positively
uggesting that he was in fact the famous historian, Ptolemy son of Lagus: contra Heckel, 2005, 234 has
his as a Ptolemy other than the famous historian.
© Berve, 1926, 2.336.
°! Radian, 1977, 289.
02 For example at Arrian 6.8.7.
3 Harl, 1997, 317-8: an interesting visual depiction of this can be seen on Harl’s maps 320-321.
 Arrian 1.14.7.
°%5 Hammond, 1980, 77, states that the banks are now 5-6m high, and the channel 20m wide (although on
.80 he contradicts this by stating that in 1976 the channel was 40m), the actual river nearer 4-Sm wide.
°% Bosworth, 1980, 121. Hammond, 1980, 75, argues for a movement upstream and to the right, but a few
ines later on p.75 and again on p.84 he does seem to accept the movement was downstream and to the left.
\ leftward movement does seem the more acceptable.


Page 53, Instance 4, Class: Text
UNKNOWN SON OF FNilp, dul was in fact Floiemy, son Of€ Lagus  (uNIIKe Deve S
suggestion)”””, then we could be some small way towards understanding this battle. A
fuller explanation is given in my tentative new theory presented at the end of this chapter.

The infantry taxis mentioned above is also unusual. Berve®” and Badian*” both
identified it with a chiliarchy of hypaspists, but it is widely known that the term taxis is
elastic and was often used to describe any infantry unit, even light infantry.° With this
in mind, and noting the proximity of the archers and Agrianians, it is likely that one of
these two groups was the taxis in question; both of which were eminently more suited to
this type of action than the heavy infantry. Harl assumed this unit of infantry to be the
heavy infantry taxis stationed immediately to the left of the hypaspists, that of Perdiccas.
This makes little sense, however, as it would mean the troops stationed on the extreme
right were advancing whilst the hypaspists, who were better suited for this kind of action,
remained stationary; and Perdiccas’ unit, to the left of the hypaspists, was attacking
upstream to the right, across the path of any potential assault by the hypaspists. This
would have the effect of removing Alexander’s best infantry from the battle.°°°

It would seem from Arrian™ that almost immediately after the Amyntas/Socrates
attack was launched, Alexander himself charged into the river. Arrian also tells us that
Alexander kept his line oblique to the pull of the current to prevent a flank attack and to
ensure as solid a front as possible as they emerged from the water. The banks were steep
in places,°® and only easily climbed where the gravel beds descend to the river on either
side. It is unlikely that any two of these gravel beds faced each other so a diagonal
crossing was forced upon Alexander. The text reads as though the army filtered over the
river in something of a continuous line, moving towards the right. But the Greek seems to
rom as “in the direction the stream drew them”, which is to say downstream, to the
elt.


Page 54, Instance 1, Class: Text
the gravel slopes; this should have caused massive confusion amongst the Macedonians,
but almost instantly Arrian transfers his battle narrative from the riverbanks to dry lanc
using the phrase “a moment later he was in the thick of it, charging at the head of his mer
straight for the spot where the Persian commanders stood”. 3°7 This is, to say the least.
difficult to accept. Equally strange is Arrian’s assertion that “things soon turned in favour
of Alexander’s men” largely due to their experience and their superior weapons.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_54instance2.jpg]

Page 54, Instance 3, Class: Text
” Arrian 1.15.3.

8 Arrian 1.15.7: only Arrian describes Mithridates’ role in the battle.

” Bosworth, 1980, 123.

'© This is odd as the attack was clearly launched on the Macedonian right wing.

'! Arrian 1.16.2.

2 Plutarch Alex. 16.13-14.

3 Arrian lastly gives a more substantial list of Persian dead than does Diodorus; it includes: - Niphates,
etines, Spithridates (Satrap of Lydia), Mithrubazanes (satrap of Cappadocia), Mithridates (son-in-law of
Jarius), Arbupales (son of Darius and grandson of Artaxerxes II), Pharnuces (brother of Darius’ wife and
therwise unknown) and Omares (commander of the Greek mercenaries). Arsites escaped to Phrygia where
e killed himself, apparently feeling responsible for the defeat.

4 Plutarch Alex. 16.

5 Badian, 1977, 271, n.2.


Page 55, Instance 1, Class: Text
In this final section I aim to examine and discuss three main issues: why the battle
s fought at the Granicus; what strategies were employed by both sides; and finally to
sent a tentative new theory of the battle.


Page 55, Instance 2, Class: Text
Many historians seem to see Memnon’s strategy as being sound, and rejected fot
sssentially unsound non-military reasons. This, I believe, is also the wrong view: if
Mlemnon’s strategy had been implemented and much of Arsites’ satrapy had been burned,
Alexander would have felt no overwhelming compulsion to follow the Persian army
hrough this devastated territory; he felt no such obligation to follow the Persians after
ssus. He could have easily turned south and encouraged a general Ionian revolt against
Persian rule. The Ionian cities had a long history of revolting from Persian rule and, as
Davis points out,*” they would have felt a natural sympathy with other Greeks.


Page 55, Instance 3, Class: Text
7 Arrian 1.12.8; Bosworth, 1980, 111-2, gives brief biographies of some of the major Persian
ommanders.

'’ Memnon was Greek but had been related to the Persian noble Artabazus, by marriage, since before 362;
fter Artabazus revolted from Artaxerxes in 359/8 he spent some time in exile at Philip’s court and was
hus well placed to offer advice on the Macedonians: Bosworth, 1980, 112-3. Harl, 1997, 306, believes that
Aemnon was a rival to Arsites and not a spokesman for the Greeks; this is probably how he saw himself,
ut it is doubtful if the Persians saw him in those terms.

? Arrian 1.12.9-10; Harl, 1997, 306, suggested that the Persians perhaps did not fully trust Memnon,
espite his Persian noble connections; Ashley, 1998, 190, comments that it may not have escaped the
ttention of the Persians that Memnon’s estates near Abydos had been left untouched by Alexander.

* Bosworth, 1980, 113, the Persians had employed such a strategy against Agesilaus half a century before,
davis, 1964, 35; contra Schachermeyr, 1973, 141-2, who sees the Persian Empire as a feudal system and
as the Persian commanders reject Memnon’s plan because it was simply unthinkable.

1 Devine, 1988, 7; Harl, 1997, 306.

2 Badian, 1977, 283; Bosworth, 1980, 113, notes that Arsites’ son, Mithropastes, was exiled to the Persian
sulf after the battle (Nearchus, FGrH 133 F 27-8) and therefore Darius perhaps did blame Arsites for the


Page 56, Instance 1, Class: Text
4 Davis, 1964, 36.
5 Hammond, 1980b, 68; Devine, 1988, 7; Davis, 1964, 36.
® Plutarch Alex. 16.2.
7 Devine, 1988, 7.
8 Plutarch Alex. 16.1, has the battle fought in the month of Daesius (May-June); Badian, 1977, 280, claims
urly May; Janke, 1904, 140, established a hundred years ago that the river was shallow and easily fordable
, that time of year, Foss’ 1977 observations agree.
* Badian, 1977, 281, suggests the possible presence of vegetation along the river bank that would have
bscured the Macedonians’ view of the Persian dispositions: Harl, 1997, 310; sensibly points out, however,
at any vegetation would have been cut down by the Persians within a day to build camp and provide fuel
r their camp fires. See also above. Arrian 1.13.2; Plutarch, Alex. 16.1.

Diodorus 17.17.19, it is interesting to note that one of the few historians who use the Diodorus version
the battle, Lane Fox, 1973, 121, actually denies the debate occurred, even though this version is
ssentially based upon the advice being acted upon


Page 56, Instance 2, Class: Text
The Persians arrived at the battle site and occupied the eastern bank at ar
iknown time, but before Alexander arrived: the only real chronology that we have is
at the battle was fought in May.°?? What ensued upon Alexander’s arrival is only
ported in Arrian and Plutarch,*”* a debate between Alexander and Parmenio as to the
sst course of action. Parmenio apparently advised waiting until the morning. Bott
uurces have Parmenio’s advice being rejected out of hand by Alexander. Diodorus?” or
e other hand has no such debate, but the account of the battle is as if the advice were


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_56instance3.jpg]

Page 57, Instance 0, Class: Text
cted upon. I believe that such a debate probably did occur, but either way the battle itself
id not take place until the following morning. The Arrian version clearly comes out of a
esire to reflect as much glory as possible upon his subject; we should not forget a point
iat I shall return to later, that Ptolemy was fighting in roughly the same area as
lexander, the right wing, and so Ptolemy was probably also glorifying his own role in
\e battle. as well as that of the king 22!


Page 57, Instance 2, Class: Text
It is at this point that I seriously diverge from most modern accounts of the battle
luring the night, I propose that the army was divided in two; Parmenio was detachec
rom the main body of the army, marched downstream a few kilometres, forded the river.
yhich as noted was only 4-5m wide and not deep, and by the morning was in a positior
) fight a land battle such as that described by Diodorus.*?? Devine describes thi:
ossibility as being “no great hardship”, but he rejects the idea of a secondary column or
holly unsatisfactory grounds; claiming that Alexander wanted to destroy the Persiar
avalry and such a manoeuvre would have resulted in a Persian withdrawal.>*? I do no
ee a withdrawal as a realistic option for the Persian nobility; as noted earlier, they were
in the eyes of Darius) faced by nothing more than a beardless youth; withdrawal woulc


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_57instance3.jpg]

Page 58, Instance 1, Class: Text
in a direct charge against heavy infantry; some infantry support on the side of the
Macedonians is, therefore, likely. We are told by Plutarch that at some point “the
Macedonian phalanx crossed the river and the infantry of both sides joined the battle”.*“°
This could be a garbled account of the taxeis of Meleager and Philip engaging the Greek
mercenary infantry. Parmenio’s force therefore probably consisted of 2,700 cavalry and


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_58instance2.jpg]

Page 58, Instance 3, Class: Text
That this initial attack occurred is not in doubt,“* but why did it involve so few
troops? The answer is simply that it was never intended to force a crossing of the river;
the idea was to feign an attack, encourage the Persians to expend their javelins, and then
retreat in seeming disarray, virtually forcing the Persians to charge into the river bed after
the fleeing Macedonians,**” thus relinquishing their valuable defensive position. It is at
first glance a little surprising that a cavalry unit as valuable as Socrates’ ile was sacrificed
in this manner, but Alexander had to persuade the Persians that a full-scale assault was
under way, involving himself and the Companion Cavalry.>"* If an ile of Companions had
not been used the Persians might not have taken the bait.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_59instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_60instance1.jpg]

Page 61, Instance 1, Class: Text
been We only source tO Nave produced an eyewitness account,” and we Can Oe
reasonably sure that Callisthenes was Arrian’s source for at least the debate with
Parmenio.**” Callisthenes is known to have been hostile to Parmenio and is probably the
source of the five dialogues between Alexander and the old general that show him as
being overly cautious against Alexander’s youthful heroism. We also know that Arrian
used Aristobulus, and Bosworth says that he was used frequently between 1.12.8 and
1.14.48 Arrian, of course, also used Ptolemy: key to Ptolemy’s account of the battle is
his location, if I am correct that the Ptolemy son of Philip mentioned by Arrian®” is 2
mistake,°”° either by Arrian of one of his many sources, and this was in fact Ptolemy son
of Lagus, then his location precludes him from having any great knowledge of any part of
the battlefield other than the area where he fought.*”' Badian’”” seems to dismiss the
importance of Ptolemy’s account of the Granicus given that he was only a junior officer
at the time, but it is precisely this “junior capacity” (along with his location) that led to
Arrian’s account that ignored the part of the battle in which he was not a participant, i.e.
that fought on dry land by the Thessalians. He would also not have access to any
meetings that would have taken place between Alexander and the senior commanders that
would have given him any knowledge of events. Further to this, by emphasising the
assault across the river he is glorifying not only Alexander’s part in the battle, but his
ee no exeall


Page 61, Instance 2, Class: Text
We know so far, then, that Arrian used Callisthenes, Aristobulus and Ptolemy. W
0 know that Polyaenus’”?”* account clearly did not have the same source as did that o
odorus, given the manoeuvre in the riverbed; Hammond believes that Polyaenus
urce is “almost certainly Cleitarchus”.*”> Hammond has,?”° however, also stated tha
odorus’ source is most likely to be Cleitarchus, and both statements cannot be true. I
lyaenus’ source was Cleitarchus, then the question of who Diodorus’ source was fo
is part of his narrative is probably insoluble: Pearson notes that there are over twent
tinct names of contemporary sources on Alexander listed by Jacoby,°”” and we do no
ve enough information to narrow it down. I think it likely that Diodorus’ source was it


Page 61, Instance 3, Class: Text
Contra Hammond, 1996, 40, believes that Arrian largely followed Ptolemy and Plutarch largely
oHowed Aristobulus.

® Bosworth, 1980, 115. Cf. pp. 16-17 above.

° Arrian 1.14.6.

° There are a number of mistakes preserved within Arrian’s account of the Macedonian order of battle.
ocrates is omitted as commander of his own ile, only to appear in exactly that capacity a few lines later at
.15.1. Philip the taxiarch is mentioned twice, as is Craterus. And given that there is also a second Philip,
ommander of the allied Greek cavalry (1.14.3), it is not beyond the realms of possibility that Arrian may
ave made another mistake by making this Ptolemy son of Philip.

' Even if the Ptolemy in question was not the historian, it is still likely that he was stationed with the
‘companion Cavalry on the right and would still have had little or no knowledge of the rest of the battle.

? Badian, 1977, 275, n.16.

3 Pearson, 1960, 204 notes that Ptolemy did like to emphasize his own involvement in events and further
200) that he actually leaves events out that he did not participate in and thus had no knowledge of; he does
ot describe the bridge over the Indus for example.

4 Hammond, 1996, 39.

5 Diodorus 17.19.34 Hammond, 1996, 16f, 23f, 26.


Page 62, Instance 1, Class: Text
fact Cleitarchus and that Polyaenus was perhaps using Ptolemy or Aristobulus, either of
whom would have resulted in a similar narrative to that of Arrian. The fact that
Cleitarchus was living in Alexandria under the rule of Ptolemy does not preclude him
from having written an account that was less flattering of Ptolemy than he would have
liked, especially if Pearson>’® is right that Cleitarchus published after Ptolemy’s death.

In summary then, Arrian’s river crossing was to be found in Ptolemy, Aristobulus
and Callisthenes, as well as Polyaenus,*” Diodorus’ account of a dry land battle was
found probably only in Cleitarchus.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_63instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_63instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_64instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_64instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_65instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_66instance1.jpg]

Page 67, Instance 1, Class: Text
perhaps unwise to pass judgment on Parmenio at this point as we have no indication as to
exactly what plan he proposed, although it would probably have been more sophisticated
than a simply battle between all available forces.”’” Alexander’s fleet was outnumbered
400/220"! but it is probable that he rejected the idea, not out of fear of Persian numerical
superiority” ” but because he had no experience of naval warfare; a defeat would have
been disastrous in Greece,*”’ and his fleet’s present position at Lade meant the capture of
Miletus would be much easier than if the Persians could be re-supplied by sea.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_67instance2.jpg]

Page 67, Instance 3, Class: Text
” Bosworth, 1980, 138.

39 .

Hammond, 1992, 39, points out that Alexander possessed two fleets, 160 ships provided by the League
of Corinth, (the “Greek fleet”) commanded by Nicanor, and a Macedonian fleet of 60 ships commanded by
Amphoterus (Arrian 3.2.6).

°°? Arrian 1.18.7.

202 , . Pa


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_68instance1.jpg]

Page 69, Instance 1, Class: Text
The suggestion by Arrian that Alexander did not need a fleet, as he alread
ontrolled the whole continent, is extraordinary and demonstrably untrue. Even if we tak
\rrian to be referring to Asia Minor, rather than the whole of Asia, then it still wa
\owhere near true. Besides, as Bosworth points out,” there was now nothing stoppin
he Persians from attacking Alexander’s forces in the rear, which in fact they did <
fenedos.*? This was a tactic that should have been employed far more effectively than |


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_69instance2.jpg]

Page 69, Instance 3, Class: Text
raising a new fleet and 600 talents were allotted to pay for the upkeep of garrisons on the
Greek mainland.“ There seems no reason why Alexander’s financial position should
have improved so drastically in just a few short months.


Page 69, Instance 4, Class: Text
This strategy of defeating the Persian navy on land is famous, and on the surface,
fairly sound. In the ancient world, warships could not carry any great quantity of supplies
and so had to dock at a friendly port every night to re-supply with food and fresh water. It
is also true that this strategy ultimately worked; the Persian fleet did collapse as
Alexander captured key cities on the Phoenician coast, but the strategy had at least two
serious flaws. The first was that a competent commander, as Memnon surely was, had a
free hand to act as he wished in the Aegean, to overrun all of the islands and carry the
fight to the mainland, where several states would more than likely have revolted given the
opportunity. Secondly it does not take any account of the fact that a significant portion of
the Persian fleet was from Cyprus, which would theoretically have been unaffected by
Alexander’s strategy; although these ships would still have needed mainland ports in
order to operate, they would still be loyal to the Persians and able to harass Alexander’s
supply lines. Alexander essentially relied upon luck to overcome these two problems,
which was uncharacteristic. His planning was usually far more meticulous than this and
his strategies were well thought out; which leads me to conclude that his decision here
was not a purely tactical or strategic one, but something else.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_70instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_71instance1.jpg]

Page 72, Instance 1, Class: Text
actic; it was partially successful, bringing down one tower,*!” but reinforcements brough
rom Halicarnassus by sea ended the brief encounter*!® with Alexander returning te
Halicarnassus to find his siege train had eluded the Persian navy and arrived by sea.*!


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_72instance2.jpg]

Page 73, Instance 1, Class: Text
battle and killing Ephialtes in the process. > These tactics employed by Memnon are very
reminiscent of Alexander’s tactics throughout his career; drawing an enemy onto ground
of his choosing and then launching a flanking attack.

After this sortie Memnon decided to abandon the main part of the city and
concentrate his forces in the two citadels that were still in Persian hands.*? Alexander
then left Ptolemy,” along with 200 cavalry and 3,000 mercenaries, to complete the
capture of the remainder of the city whilst he headed to Gordium.”*


Page 73, Instance 2, Class: Text
432 Diodorus 17.26.5-7.

433 Arrian 1.23.1; although Diodorus 17.25.5, has most of the defenders evacuating to Cos.

434 This was not the famous son of Lagus, the historian; but another rather more obscure individual.
435 Arrian 1.23.6.

436 Achleay 19908 210.


Page 73, Instance 3, Class: Text
There are two separate accounts of Halicarnassus, those of Diodorus and Arrian.
Diodorus certainly presents this campaign as the least impressive of Alexander’s career,
although Arrian is less negative. Even in Arrian, however, Halicarnassus is far from an
overwhelming success; still we find the undisciplined soldiers of Perdiccas’ taxis and still
we find Alexander being taken by surprise by Ephialtes’ sortie, as well as the lack of
protection for his siege engines and towers. Innovation throughout the whole siege was
typically a reaction to the actions of Memnon and Ephialtes in both traditions.*° Whilst it
is true that he was, to a point, successful, he only captured part of the city and did not
deprive the Persian navy of its base; that was ultimately left to Ptolemy. In contrast to
Alexander’s shortcomings, Memnon and Ephialtes showed themselves to be commanders
of the highest order. Memnon successfully sealed breaches in the walls where they
occurred, he constructed a huge tower from which to shower the attackers with missiles
and he conducted a series of sorties that always had Alexander on the back foot whilst
Ephialtes led the first sortie with distinction. With hindsight Alexander was certainly
successful in the capture of Halicarnassus, and it did not take too long, for which he
should be congratulated; we can also say that he learned tough lessons from his mistakes
here that he was to put into practice during later sieges (i.e. Tyre and Gaza). We can alsc
say that Alexander was certainly lucky Memnon died when he did.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_73instance4.jpg]

Page 74, Instance 1, Class: Text
napter 4
The Campaign of Issus: 333

Introduction

It is the intention of this thesis to discuss, where appropriate, questions of strategy
as well as tactics. The campaign of Issus presents us with an excellent opportunity to
examine the strategies employed by both participants in the lead up to the battle. In order
to fully appreciate these strategies, however, we must first discuss the topography of the
region.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_74instance2.jpg]

Page 74, Instance 3, Class: Text
It is the intention of this thesis to discuss, where appropriate, questions of strategy
as well as tactics. The campaign of Issus presents us with an excellent opportunity to
xamine the strategies employed by both participants in the lead up to the battle. In order
(0 fully appreciate these strategies, however, we must first discuss the topography of the
region.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_75instance0.jpg]

Page 76, Instance 1, Class: Text
nitial Movements - Alexander

After an advance of 50 stadia in a single day,” Alexander conducted a daring
tight march which forced passage through the so called “Cilician Gates”,? probably the
nodern Kalekoy pass.“ Alexander then entered Cilicia,“ which was to become his base
of operations for the next several months. After forcing the pass, Alexander arrived at
Tarsus before Arsames, the Persian commander of the region. Apparently Alexander had
eared that Arsames would institute a scorched earth policy such as had been advocated
»y Memnon before the Granicus.“° After failing to secure Tarsus, however, Arsames


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_76instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_76instance3.jpg]

Page 77, Instance 1, Class: Text
3 a medica background cf. Bosworth, 193s, 191. Curtius 3.6.1 adds that he had been a boynood Iriend of
Jexander.

° Berve, 1926, 2. 388.

’ Bosworth, 1980, 191.

? An indication of the seriousness of the illness can perhaps be taken from the flight of Harpalus. Intrigues
stween the leading generals would have been rife at this time and it is entirely possible that Harpalus fled
| fear for his life in the event of Alexander’s death, The fact that Harpalus lived in the Megarid for nearly a
sar apparently without fear of extradition, and the fact that he was welcomed back by Alexander without
inishment indicates that he probably committed no crime. Contra, Badian, 1960, 245-6, who believed that
lexander relieved Harpalus in order to divide the administration of the treasury between two people, much
she did with command of the Companion Cavalry after the death of Philotas, although this was in a later
riod, after Alexander had become somewhat paranoid and feared one person having that much power
ain. Lane Fox, 1973, 164 with 519; 411 with 542, proposed that Harpalus was on a “secret mission” to
atch the political situation in Greece. Cf. Green, 1991, 222

Diodorus 17.32.2.

* Curtius 3.7.5-7; Arrian 2.6.1.

a ee ee ae er


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_77instance2.jpg]

Page 77, Instance 3, Class: Text
appears to have withdrawn from the region entirely, with little or no damage being
caused.


Page 78, Instance 1, Class: Text
divided the army:*>’ Philotas, with the cavalry, was sent on to the river Pyramus, through
the Aleian plain;*** Alexander himself marched to Magarsus with the hypaspists and the
agema of Companions. Magarsus submitted without incident;*°° Alexander then marched
north-east to Mallus. It was while Alexander was encamped at Mallus that he received
news that Darius was two days march away at Sochi.*” Before we discuss the immediate
and future strategy of the two armies we must solidify the timeline and discuss the


Page 78, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘5? Much of which was with Parmenio in the region of Issus at this time.

58 Arrian 2.5.8.

59 Interestingly Mallus was not fined, unlike Soli, no doubt because it was in a strategically far more
sensitive area.

‘© Arrian 2.6.1.

6! Lonsdale, 2007, 80-1, argues that Alexander’s dominant strategic concern was to prevent the Persians
from using their fleet to land troops in the rear of his army: this is surely not the case as the Persians were
inland, rather than on the coast, and this tactic was not a major part of Persian warfare. The theory is, I
believe, the result of applying modern tactical thinking to the ancient world, an unsound practice.

‘62 Curtius 3.2.1-9.

3 Arrian 2.1.3; although Diodorus 17.29.4 places his death after the capture of Mytilene.

4 Bosworth, 1988, 53.

65 A reasonably short period of time, but plausible, given that news could be carried by sea to the
Phoenician coast, and then quickly by land to Babylon.

66 Murison, 1972, 406.

‘67 Similar terrain than from Babylon to Sochi.

68 Arrian 3.16.7, for Alexander’s march rates table see Engels, 1978, 153. kmpd = km per day.

6° Darius had with him part of the royal treasury, his own family, his harem as well as many thousands of
camp followers; Curtius 3.3.8-28.

‘70 Two months is also the time calculated by Devine, 1985a, 27.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_78instance3.jpg]

Page 79, Instance 1, Class: Text
Using the end of September as the time of Darius’ arrival at Sochi we car
continue the process begun earlier and further establish the Macedonian timeline. We
know that the battle occurred on the sixth day after Alexander received news that Darius
was at Sochi.*”' Beloch*” argued that Alexander’s campaign in south-west Cilicia lastec
around one month, from the time he left Tarsus, until he heard of Darius’ presence at
Sochi. This, however, leaves four months unaccounted for on the part of the
Macedonians. Murison*” proposed two possible solutions to this problem: either that
Alexander’s illness was far more serious than we know, and his recovery period was in
fact a period of several months; or that Alexander paused at Gordium for longer than we
had previously believed, no doubt being worried about the progress of Persian operations
in the Aegean. The reality is probably some combination of the two, at this stage
Alexander seems not to have been in a hurry.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_79instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_80instance1.jpg]

Page 81, Instance 1, Class: Text
Some key distance data are also critical; the most important being those from
Mallus to Myriandrus, which Alexander covered in a reported two days;*” and from
sochi to Issus, and then to the Pinarus River; a distance that Darius covered in an
inspecified length of time. The distance between Mallus and Myriandrus is impossible
o know with any degree of certainty, given that the precise location of both is uncertain.
The general location of both can be approximated from the ancient evidence and a
listance of around 120km seems reasonable.*”* Alexander was, therefore, clearly moving
vith considerable alacrity when he covered this distance in 48 hours.*” Sochi to Issus,
he route travelled by Darius, would also be around 120km; two passes*”° would also
lave to be crossed en route, however. Given that Darius had sent his baggage train south
o Damascus, only the most mobile elements of the army remained; but given the passes
hat needed to be traversed, we can perhaps assume 72 hours or so for this distance. The
-inarus River is only around 8km from Issus, so this last stage of the journey would not


Page 81, Instance 2, Class: Text
When Darius arrived at Sochi, he was in an ideal position to take advantage of his
superior numbers. This was a battle site of his own choosing, consisting of wide open,
level ground; a position that would have allowed him to encircle the much smaller
Macedonian army.*”” Why would Darius abandon such an ideal position in order to fight
a battle in a narrow, hilly plain enclosed on all sides by natural barriers? The sources are
almost unanimous in their assertion that Darius grew impatient at Alexander’s refusal to
come to him,‘ delays that were in fact due to Alexander’s illness and his campaign in
south-west Cilicia. The delays caused Darius to conclude that Alexander would not come
to meet him; Curtius even has Darius describe Alexander as a coward,” and advance
despite the best advice of Amyntas, his Greek mercenary commander. Arrian tells us that
the worst counsel prevailed, telling Darius what he wanted to hear.” Curtius gives us a
rather different version of events at the Persian court at this time. He describes a debate
not with Amyntas as in Arrian, but with Thymondas, son of Mentor.*"! The subject of the
debate, according to Curtius, was whether or not to divide the army; a theme that appears
in neither Arrian nor Plutarch. Curtius and Diodorus” both describe an earlier debate in


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_81instance3.jpg]

Page 82, Instance 1, Class: Text
Babylon, in which the Athenian mercenary, Charidemus, advocated such a division of
forces, and was executed for his overzealousness. Bosworth” argues that the debate on a
division of forces is better placed in Babylon, not at Sochi, and Curtius airing the debate
with Thymondas as the leading protagonist is anachronistic. This argument does not work
terribly well geographically. If the army was to have been divided at Babylon, the two
elements would have had to travel virtually the same 966km route to arrive in the region:
a division of forces, if such a thing was to happen, would have been far more logically
undertaken at Sochi where one half could head south-west, the other north, to trap


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_82instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_83instance1.jpg]

Page 83, Instance 2, Class: Text
Darius was in a strong position at Sochi, a position that was suited to his
superiority in numbers and especially in cavalry so why would he suddenly abandon it to
enter Cilicia? The very fact that he did this (it was partly down to logistics too) I believe
suggests that Curtius is correct and that Darius knew of Alexander’s illness and was
attempting to gain a major tactical advantage by advancing while the Macedonians were
2ffectively leaderless. If Alexander’s illness turned out to be fatal, then Darius would
encounter a leaderless enemy, which could easily be driven from Persian territory. By the
‘ime he reached Issus, he would have learned that Alexander had recovered, so he tried to
make the best of his mistake and selected the most suitable place in Cilicia to fight a set
piece battle. Thus Darius’ decision to march into Cilicia was sound, only failing because
he news of Alexander’s illness was out of date by the time it reached him. On this
interpretation, Curtius is right to hold that Darius knew of Alexander’s illness, but is
wrong regarding the timing.


Page 84, Instance 1, Class: Text
when Darius came down to the coast with all his
forces and Alexander was penned up in Cilicia
lacking all resources, as you yourself said, and was,
according to your account, on the point of being
trampled underfoot by the Persian cavalry.


Page 84, Instance 2, Class: Text
marched irom Mallus immediately upon hearing of Darius’ arrival at socn1, he must have
arrived at Myriandrus while Darius was still at Sochi, the latter’s advance coming a little
later. On this reading, Darius was not close behind Alexander at Issus and the report that
the two armies missed each other in the night is “absurd.”>"®

Beloch also argues that Darius arrived at Sochi in late August, and the battle was
fought in late September; meaning that the two armies faced each other across the Beilan
pass for around one month before the battle. After this stalemate, according to Beloch,
Darius divided his army, taking the more mobile elements north, across the Amanid gates
with the intention of forcing a battle. He cites Aeschines’ speech Against Ctesiphon in
support: Aeschines states:°!”


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_84instance3.jpg]

Page 84, Instance 4, Class: Text
Neither Curtius nor Aeschines support Beloch; his theory also falls down upon
examination of a passage of Callisthenes, preserved in Polybius. Callisthenes states
that:°**
so Beloch, 1923, vol.2, 364 (both quotes)

Aeschines Against Ctesiphon, 164. The speech was delivered in 330, only three years after the battle. In
this section of the speech the orator is addressing Demosthenes.
520 Beloch, 1923, vol.2, 365.
52 Murison, 1972, 413.
on Or at least with a very small time lag either way.
Curtius 3.7.8-10. Curtius is the only source to have Alexander making this decision.
54 Polybius 12.17.2-3 acing mis eee


Page 85, Instance 1, Class: Text
Alexander had already made his way through the
narrows and the so called ‘Gates of Cilicia’,°”> while
Darius, making use of the passage through the so called
‘Amanid Gates’, had come down into Cilicia with his
army. Learning from the natives that Alexander was
heading in the direction of Syria, he followed, and as he
drew near to the narrows camped by the River Pinarus.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_85instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_86instance1.jpg]

Page 86, Instance 2, Class: Text
Judeich’s theory continues with Alexander dividing his army at Tarsus and
ending Parmenio south>”” to dislodge the Persians from the Beilan Pass and the Pillar of
onah, and to occupy them in anticipation of Alexander’s move south. This would have
riven Darius a clear indication of the future direction of Alexander’s army, given that
Yarius’ troops occupying the northern pass were apparently left unmolested. The Persian
lan, according to Judeich, had been to fall upon the Macedonians as they emerged from
vhichever pass they took to cross the Amanus Mountains. A new plan was then
ormulated whereby the Macedonians would be allowed to cross the Amanus range
vhilst the Persians cut off their lines of supply and communication by moving through
he northern passes. Darius would then be able to follow Alexander south, forcing him on
o the plain of Sochi where his superior numbers could be most effectively used.*"!
Nilcken and Hamilton*” both follow this element of Darius’ strategy, as interpreted by


Page 87, Instance 1, Class: Text
Judeich. Thus Darius moved across the northern passes and paused at the pass of Kalekoy
to allow Alexander to move south before following;>” arriving at Issus not long afte
Alexander had left. Alexander was fortuitously delayed by a storm whilst at Myriandrus
however, this allowed intelligence of Darius’ movements to reach him in time to turt
around and face the Persians on sronnd advantagenns to him 244


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_87instance2.jpg]

Page 87, Instance 3, Class: Text
$43 Murison, 1972, 418-19.

+44 A strategy that this thesis will aim to demonstrate was a recurring theme on the part of Alexander.

545 Arrian 2.5.1.

546 Beloch, 1923, vol.3, 362, this seems a reasonable enough figure given the time Alexander spent at Soli.
47 Judeich, 1929, 358, n.2.

$48 Dittberner, 1908, 75-76.

$4 Arrian 2.6.1; Bosworth, 1980, 200.

50 Judeich, 1929, 356, sees the Persians as deliberately ‘leaking’ information about the position of Darius
to the Macedonian advanced guard after the Persians had set off north. This seems to be to apply a modern
‘disinformation’ technique to the ancient world and I do not believe it justified; it is certainly not supported
by the sources.

551 Diodorus 17.32.4; Curtius 3.8.24.

552 Arelian DS 6


Page 88, Instance 1, Class: Text
ine, telling us that Alexander fined the inhabitants of Soli? 200 silver talents because of
their continued inclination towards the Persian cause. Persian supporters in Soli could
easily have travelled by boat to the Orontes River to report Alexander’s activities to
Darius. Coastal towns no doubt had a significant fishing fleet;>** we know that Alexander
had no difficulty in finding a ship at Mvriandrus to verify Darius’ position behind him»


Page 88, Instance 2, Class: Text
Bosworth**! points out two other motivations for Darius’ movements: the first,
at Darius was a “military hero in his own right”, and thus would not be prepared to wait
0 long for a numerically inferior opponent. This is a reasonable enough theory, but if
arius was a reasonably talented commander then he would have realised that his best
1ance of success was on a wide open plain, such as he chose initially, and then chose
yain at Gaugamela. Bosworth’s second point is perhaps more important: Darius may
ive been running short of supplies. The grand army had been in the field for some
onths, crossing land that was not overly fertile; Alexander, on the other hand, could


Page 88, Instance 3, Class: Text
53 Soli had been founded by Rhodians around 700, and as a result Bosworth calls the city Greek. By the
ourth century, however, the city was thoroughly Persian, being a major population centre and the minting
‘entre for the satrapal coinage of Pharnabazus, Tiribazus and Mazaeus: Bosworth, 1980, 195.

+4 Murison, 1972, 420.

5 Arrian 3.7.3.

°° That Darius posted guards at the northern passes is supposition, but reasonable supposition.

57 Murison, 1972, 420.

58 Murison, 1972, 419-23; contra Bosworth, 1980, 200-1, who argues that there is no evidence that the
lacedonian army was divided. But this cannot be the case, as we explicitly know that Parmenio was sent
o occupy the southern passes with around half the army, and Alexander was campaigning in ‘Rough
Nilicia’ with the other half.

9 Plutarch Alex, 20.3.

© The story of the two armies missing each other narrowly during the night is very dubious; as noted in fn.
65 the armies were separated by 48km and a mountain range. The idea of the Persians making a night
narch need not be automatically rejected.

§! Bosworth, 1988, 59.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_89instance1.jpg]

Page 90, Instance 1, Class: Text
massacre, Darius moved south from Issus and made preparations on the banks of the
Pinarus River. Upon hearing Darius was at Issus, Alexander dispatched a part of the
Companions and a ship from Myriandrus to verify the report; that done he simply turned
his army around and made for the river: this is a fine example of the discipline of the
AAarnoaAnanian army


Page 90, Instance 2, Class: Text
He (Alexander) at once called a meeting of his staff anc
told them this important news (that Darius was still at
Sochi). They urged unanimously an immediate advance
Alexander thanked them and dismissed the meeting, an
on the following day moved forward with the evident
intention of attack. Two days later he took up a positiot
at Myriandrus, and during the night there was a storm a
such violent wind and rain that he was compelled to
remain where he wae with nn chance nf hraaling ramr


Page 90, Instance 3, Class: Text
Before going on to discuss the battle itself, there is one final element of the
reliminary movements of the protagonists that we must examine: why did Alexander
10ve south of the pillar of Jonah? why did he not remain in the plain of Issus to await
Marius? In the sources we have, as we did at the Granicus, two entirely different accounts
f Alexander’s strategy. Arrian presents the campaign as purely offensive. Curtius, on the
ther hand, has Alexander adopting a defensive posture, essentially on the advice of
armenio, just prior to the battle.*’? On this reading, we have two mutually incompatible
ccounts, but this is only if the account of Arrian is misinterpreted. Arrian presents
\lexander as moving to Myriandrus, at which point he would move to engage Darius at
ochi. Curtius, likewise, has Alexander move south of the Pillar of Jonah, out of the plain
f Issus and into the much smaller area’’’ enclosed by mountains and passes on all sides:
pecifically the Pillar of Jonah to the north and the Beilan Pass to the east.


Page 91, Instance 1, Class: Text
Alexander in fact had no intention of being drawn into a battle on Darius’ terms. As in
almost all of his campaigns, the battle was to be fought on ground of Alexander’s
choosing. Alexander, therefore, moved towards Myriandrus because it was far more
defensible than the Issus plain; it was far smaller, and Myriandrus was closer to the key
passes to the east and west than Issus was to the passes to the north and south. A camp at
Myriandrus, therefore, could easily defend the plain.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_91instance2.jpg]

Page 92, Instance 1, Class: Text
main grounds, the first that there is no room for the 40 stade approach march made by
Alexander and described in Callisthenes;*’ 40 stades south of the Payas would place
Alexander still well within the coastal defiles of the Cilician Gates, an area that he had
cleared by the time the march began.


Page 92, Instance 2, Class: Text
2HE Date OF issus

Once Darius had advanced to the plain of Issus, taking up a position at the Pinarus
River, Arrian presents us with a picture of Alexander being shocked and not believing in
his scouting reports. When the reality of these reports had been established, Alexander
made a speech, as he frequently did, to exhort the troops before advancing.” The
historicity of the speech, as with all of the other pre-battle speeches, has been much
discussed.~ Tarn believed them to be entirely fictitious, but Bosworth™ notes enough
similarities between the various versions of the speech to suggest a common source,


Page 93, Instance 1, Class: Text
probably Ptolemy.° Despite the likelihood of a common, original source, it seems highly
unlikely that Alexander would have presented the Persians, at this time, as cowards,°”
and why Ptolemy should wish to portray them as such seems equally puzzling. We may
conclude that although the speech came from Ptolemy, it probably did not come
aileremnatali« feam tha maiuth nf Alawantnn


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_93instance2.jpg]

Page 94, Instance 1, Class: Text
The strength of the Macedonian army at Issus was very similar indeed to that a
he Granicus; there were, however, two new missile units, the Thessalian javelin men anc
he Cretan archers. The Greek allied troops and the Greek mercenaries are not mentionec
luring the battle, and were perhaps used as a second line, much as will be seen a
jaugamela, or, more likely, were left to guard the Pillar of Jonah and other key strategic
yoints in the region. Alexander’s front line strength at Issus was around 5,100 cavalry anc


Page 94, Instance 2, Class: Text
NN ON I ON ENO OIE EEE SAD IANASY ODIO ONE fp RI NE ON REEON NE NA ENE NE NORA EAE FD STN OOOOEE”
strict orders to maintain a link between the sea and the Macedonian centre.°!! The heavy
infantry was, as always, deployed in the centre according to a strictly adhered-to code of
honour. The greatest position of honour, on the right of the heavy infantry, was occupied
as always by the hypaspists, under Nicanor; Parmenio’s son. Following these from right
to left were the taxeis of Coenus, Perdiccas, Meleager, Ptolemy,°'? Amyntas, and
Craterus on the left, next to Parmenio’s cavalry.° At the initial stage of disposition, the
Thessalian cavalry, the Companion Cavalry, the Paeonians and the prodromoi were all
deployed to the right of the hypaspists, along with Alexander himself; indicating that
Alexander planned a massive cavalry strike from that area towards the Persian centre: a
strategy that was not at all original, but the size of the force was. Positioning so much of
the cavalry force, some 4,500 men,°!* to the right, left Parmenio dangerously
undermanned on the extreme left, commanding as he did only around 600 cavalry;°" a
problem that Alexander would realise and rectify later. To the extreme right of the army
were positioned the Agrianians and archers, along with some unspecified cavalry unit as
a precaution to protect the right flank from the few Persian troops that had been stationed


Page 94, Instance 3, Class: Text
Certain conclusions can be drawn from Alexander’s initial dispositions: that he
ntended a defensive action on his left seems clear; Parmenio was not given enough
‘oops to do anything else. That the main thrust of the attack was to come in the form of
ne cavalry on the right seems equally clear. The heavy infantry were stationed in the
entre as usual, but we can not speculate upon their orders simply from their positioning;
ney could be intended to be offensive or defensive, only time would indicate their true
urpose. The initial dispositions, then, were very similar to every one of Alexander’s set
iece battles; there appeared little innovation at this point.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_94instance4.jpg]

Page 95, Instance 1, Class: Text
Jarius evidently had studied Alexander's dispositions aft the Granicus, and expected
\lexander to deploy in much the same way. To counter the central strength of the
Macedonian heavy infantry, he deployed his Greek mercenary troops in the centre,*”
inder the command of Thymondas whom Darius had recalled from the Aegean to take
his command.°!'® The Greek mercenaries were stationed along a stretch of banks between
00m and 1.6km from the coast.*! In this area the banks were steep enough to remove
he possibility of attack from cavalry.” Deploying Greek mercenary troops in this area
vas tactically very sound indeed - the steep banks would make an assault by cavalry
mpossible, and would severely disrupt the Macedonian heavy infantry. Adding to the
lefensive strength he created several abatis, essentially temporary defensive palisades,"
it the most vulnerable points. Arrian and Curtius, following Callisthenes,~” both give the
trength of the Greek mercenary force at 30,000, but given their location this must be a
erious overestimate. They were stationed opposite the hypaspists and pezhetairoi, which
hemselves numbered 12,000, and as they did not seriously overlap the Macedonians we
‘an assume that, if their depth was the same as their opponents’, their numbers would


Page 95, Instance 2, Class: Text
617 Arrian 2.8.6.
6'8 Curtius 3.8.1.
- Devine, 1985b, 47.
6 . . eas .
Arrian 2.10.1; 2.10.5. The description comes ultimately from Callisthenes, who described the banks as
_precipitous and inaccessible”: Polybius 12.17.5.
61 Arrian 2.10.1.
- Arrian, 2.8.6. Curtius 3.9.2. Polybius 12.18.2.
Although we mst note that eer s no indication in any of the sources as to what their depth actually
was; it could be that they were 16 or 20 deep which would put thei I
oo Arrian 2.8.6: of, Polybius 12.17,7, p uld put their numbers at 24,000-30,000.
os Arrian 2.8.6.


Page 96, Instance 1, Class: Text
If we are right in associating the Cardaces®”* with the peltasts of Callisthenes, then
Arrian is clearly wrong in calling them hoplites; they are also not an attempt by the
Persians to develop a native force that could oppose Greek hoplites.©? Arrian no doubt
simply made the error of assuming that in ancient warfare the centre of the line was
nvariably occupied by the heaviest infantry that were available. If Arrian was assuming
his then it is understandable that he therefore believed the Cardaces to be hoplites, when
n reality they were light-armed peltasts. Having said this we must remember that the
Macedonian pezhetairoi and hypaspists were essentially peltasts themselves, possessing
yery little defensive armour and only a small shield. Given that they are almost always
eferred to as a phalanx, and thus regarded as being heavy infantry, we should not be too
quick to label the Cardaces. Expressions like heavy infantry, light infantry, peltasts and
skirmishers invite conclusions about their abilities and likely deployment which are not


Page 96, Instance 2, Class: Text
27 Devine, 1985b, 47.

28 See Bosworth, 1980, 208, for a description of Cardaces in the sources outside of the career of
Alexander.

29 Ashley, 1998, 225. It is a possibility that the Persians were in fact attempting to develop a force similar
o the Macedonian heavy infantry and this has been consistently misunderstood as an attempt to match a
tandard Greek Phalanx. The Persians had, after all, had the opportunity to witness the dominance of
Macedonian infantry over those of the city states during Philip’s rise to pre-eminence in Greece.

79 Curtius 3.9.1-6.

31 Curtius 3.11.5.

32 Curtius 3.9.5.

33 Arrian 2.8.11.

34 Arrian 2.8.8.

35 Plutarch Alex. 18.6


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_96instance3.jpg]

Page 97, Instance 1, Class: Text
\lexander was, as usual, heavily outnumbered.

Curtius explicitly lays out Darius’ tactics for the battle: he at first intended t
wccupy the foothills with a force in excess of 20,000, intending to make an encirclin;
novement “both in the front and in the rear”.~® On the seaward flank he apparenth
anned a similar operation: Darius, therefore, planned a double encirclement that woul
ress Alexander from every direction. The strategy was sound if the topography allowec
or it, as it had for the Persians at Cunaxa, and would at Gaugamela. At Issus, however
he plain was narrow and Alexander’s flanks were protected by the sea to the west anc
he Amanus Mountains to the east. Alexander had lured Darius to the Issus plain for thi


Page 98, Instance 1, Class: Text
15m; its banks were steep and impassable to cavalry except at two narrow fords. The
banks in the third section were steep, from 2-4m, effectively prohibiting both infantry and
cavalry action. The final section of the river, leading into the foothills, was wide with
precipitous banks, a minimum of 3m high rising to 10m in places, the only crossing point
being a ford perhaps 3.5km from the sea.™°


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_98instance2.jpg]

Page 99, Instance 1, Class: Text
pass, to the left. The counter to this argument, of course, is the fact that both Arrian and
Curtius®? specifically tell us that the Thessalians and Macedonians were posted to the
right initially, with only the Peloponnesians on the left.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_99instance2.jpg]

Page 99, Instance 3, Class: Text
~° AITIAN 2.7.4, CUITIUS 9.7.6.
53 Assuming, of course, that it was the product of the changing Persian dispositions.

54 Arrian 2.9.2-3.

55 Devine, 1985b, 50.

56 Arrian 2.8.9.

57 Curtius 3.11.15; and Arrian 2.11.4, both tell us that both horse and rider in the Persian heavy cavalry
vere covered with plate armour, thus losing considerable mobility. The finest of the Persian heavy cavalry
vere the Saca horsemen, who played a significant role at Gaugamela (Arrian 3.13.4). The Bactrian and
sogdianian cavalry were not present at Issus (Arrian 3.8.3; Curtius 3.2.9) and the cataphracti mentioned at
ssus were probably Parthian. There were definitely Hyrcanian cavalry present at Issus (Curtius 3.2.6, 9-5)
ind it is reasonable to assume the Parthians would also be present given that they seem to have formed a
ingle satrapy (Berve, 1926, 264-5). Curtius 3.9.8-9; Arrian 2.9.1; 2.9.3.

58 Devine, 1985b, 50. Griffith, 1935, 32, notes that at Gaugamela their line was not continuous; the same
nay well have been the case here.

59 Arrian 3.12.1: 3.14.6.


Page 100, Instance 1, Class: Text
some of the 7,000 infantry supplied by the League of Corinth formed a second line alon
with the Greek mercenary infantry,' but their lack of direct involvement in the battle le
to them being omitted by our sources.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_100instance2.jpg]

Page 101, Instance 1, Class: Text
centre; only then were they routed, suffering the most significant losses of the battle
whilst being pursued by Parmenio.°” Arrian’s reduction of the significance of the role of
the Thessalians and Parmenio in the battle is part of a long series of instances noted in
previous chapters of attempts by Ptolemy to reduce the significance of Parmenio whilst
wlinetfenance Alavandar’c rata in tha hattla


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_101instance2.jpg]

Page 101, Instance 3, Class: Text
Curtius’ account is somewhat different: in this account the battle actually began
on the Macedonian left wing.°” Curtius tells us explicitly that the Persians attacked along
he shoreline against the Peloponnesian and Greek allied cavalry before the Thessalians
urived; indeed their dispatch by Alexander seems to have come as a reaction to this
ypening Persian move.” We can also gather from Curtius’ narrative that the
Peloponnesians and allied Greeks may have inadvertently begun the battle by straying
into Persian missile range: “they had now come within javelin-range when the Persian
cavalry made a furious charge on the left wing of their enemy”.°”°


Page 101, Instance 4, Class: Text
When the Macedonian saw this he ordered two ilai to
maintain a position on the ridge while he promptly
transferred the rest to the heart of the danger. Then he
withdrew the Thessalian cavalry from the fighting line,
telling their commander to pass unobtrusively behind
the Macedonian rear and join Parmenio.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Image\page_102instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_102instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_103instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_104instance1.jpg]

Page 104, Instance 2, Class: Text
6 Devine, 1985b, 52.

*7 Hammond, 1981, 104.

8 Although this, of course, is made far from easy by the changes in the courses in rivers in the Issus plain,
ind by our lack of specific knowledge as to which of the current rivers can be equated with the Pinarus.
 Arrian 2.10.3; 2.10.5.

Hammond, 1981, 104.

1 Devine, 1985b, 52, n.80.

02 Only 12 of those in the Anabasis.

3 Arrian 3.15.1; 3.21.9; 6.6.6.

4 Arrian 2.4.6; 3.14.2; 3.18.6.

5 Arrian 4.16.1; 4.16.3.

ia Arrian 1.6.7; 4.26.3; 5.16.1; 5.24.2; Indica 24.6; 24.7; Ect. 29.

Diodorus uses ‘droméi’ three times exclusively of infantry (4.52.4; 14.23.1; 15.55.3) and once
indeterminately (18.34.1). Shrimpton, 1980, 34, n.16, notes that Herodotus 9.59.1 and Thucydides 1.63.1
ise ‘dromdi’ to describe the movement of soldiers wading through water.

8 Again, as at the Granicus River; cf. 57-9.
109 aAchtax, 10092 9979


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_105instance1.jpg]

Page 106, Instance 1, Class: Text
however, Alexander wheeled towards the Persian centre. This movement, coupled with
the heavy infantry attack in the centre, essentially created a two-pronged penetration. In
order to protect himself from the possibility of a counter-attack, Alexander created a
second flank guard; the prodromoi, Paeonians, two ilai of Companions, the Macedonian
archers, the Agrianians and some Greek mercenary infantry. The need for this flank guard
was limited as the Persian extreme left had melted away; it would only have been used if
that flank had had the discinline to reform. hit it evidently did not.


Page 106, Instance 2, Class: Text
Once the right-hand two pezhetairoi taxeis crossed the river, they turned to the:
t to make a flanking attack against the Greek mercenary infantry, an attack timed t
ncide with the full attack of the remaining four pezhetairoi taxeis across the river.”
e hypaspists, on the other hand, seem to have continued advancing towards Darius an
bodyguards; this attack coinciding with Alexander’s flanking attack from the extrem
ht. Arrian makes little or no mention of the Cardaces during the battle; this is nc
ogether surprising when we consider that the fighting simply passed them by. Ther
m to have been no Macedonian troops immediately opposing them: given that th
iks were precipitous, they could have done little to prevent Alexander’s cavalry charg
their left flank by the Companions. They also evidently did not react fast enough to th
cornea nf tha herman nents fo ned th ow nt ewan en etentaht fraew Tiaciaiec


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_106instance3.jpg]

Page 107, Instance 1, Class: Text
Connected with the flight of Darius is a theme that yet again echoes Gaugamela,
he request for assistance,” this time by the Macedonian centre.”** Arrian tells us that
Alexander immediately turned back once news reached him that the heavy infantry were
n trouble, and did not resume the pursuit of Darius until the whole of the Persian army
was routed.’** Curtius’ account is very similar, clearly deriving from the same source,
Alexander only pursued Darius once the Persian right wing was in full retreat.’°6
Devine?” speculates that it is far more likely that Alexander initially pursued Darius from
he field for the four or five stades that Plutarch”** credits Darius with being able to cover
n a matter of minutes. The pursuit this far is reasonable enough within the bounds of
attlefield manoeuvres, but it is unlikely that Alexander pursued Darius immediately for
he 200 stades that Diodorus credits him with.”? The only evidence for this is the (quite
‘easonably) presumed desire of Alexander to kill or capture Darius.


Page 107, Instance 2, Class: Text
1ouse of the Faun at Pompeii depicts either this stage of the fighting here, or the
quivalent stage from the battle of Gaugamela.’” If Arrian is to be accepted, then the
ntirety of the vulgate tradition must be dismissed on this point. If Arrian’s account is
orrect, it likely originates with the court history; Callisthenes seems unlikely to have
oduced an account where Darius is seen as being almost as heroic as Alexander, despite
1is initial assertion that the two kings wished to meet on the field of battle.”?° One final
‘ircumstantial piece of evidence for the last stand of Darius is that if he had fled
mmediately his officers are unlikely to have continued to fight bravely;”! flight would
iso have made raising another army at Gaugamela almost impossible if he had shown
imself to be a coward.”"? We can assume, therefore, that the vulgate tradition is correct
n that the fighting surrounding Darius was fierce, and Darius’ withdrawal occurred only


Page 108, Instance 1, Class: Text
aken prisoner.’*' The only source to dissent slightly from these massive numbers is th
Dxyrhynchus Historian, who gives a total of 50,000 Persian infantry casualties and 3,00
cavalry, along with an unspecified number of mercenaries.”” If we assume thi
inspecified number to have been of the order of 10,000 then we have almost the sam«
otals as in Justin.’ Persian losses for the battle are massively inflated by our source:
ind we can never know the true figure; the best we can say, however, is that Persia
osses would have been significant. This would have been partly due to the vicious nature
f the fighting that comes through in our sources, and partly because of the pursuit of th


Page 108, Instance 2, Class: Text
Darius’ plan for the battle was sound; he evidently planned for a strong defence in
the centre, aided by the abatis that he set up along the less steep sections of the river. It is
clear that his tactics were not purely defensive, however, given his positioning of troops
in the foothills with the intention of outflanking Alexander’s right. His final plan, to
attack Alexander in strength along the coast, shows Darius adapting to what he saw as the
tactical situation of the battlefield: he believed that an opportunity had presented itself to
deliver a decisive blow against that wing; the fact that this failed was more to do with
Alexander’s supreme planning, foresight, adaptability, and my proposal that this was
Alexander’s brilliantly laid trap, than any deficiency on the part of Darius.


Page 108, Instance 3, Class: Text
Macedonian losses are a little more believable, if probably underestimated. The
most frequently cited figure for cavalry losses is 150, in Diodorus, Curtius and Justin.’
For infantry Diodorus gives 300, Curtius only 32, although that figure has been emended,
with general acceptance, by Hedicke to 302, and Justin 130.’* Arrian™® gives the lowest
number at 120, although this is a figure only mentioned in passing and refers only to
casualties among the pezhetairoi in their skirmish with the Greek mercenary infantry.’*’
The Oxyrhynchus Historian’* gives the highest figure at 1,000, although this may
include the wounded, which Curtius puts at 504,”4° and Hedicke emends to 4,500.”°°
Bosworth notes that both Persian and Macedonian losses are propaganda figures and
inherently untrustworthy.


Page 109, Instance 1, Class: Text
rilliant flanking manoeuvres; the cavalry on the left luring the Persians forward only to
e outflanked by the Thessalians moving from the right to execute a brilliantly planned
rap. We also see Alexander forcing a crossing on the extreme right of the formation and
hen wheeling left to flank the Persian guard defending Darius. Next we see the
ypaspists and the right-hand two pezhetairoi taxeis moving to their right to force a
rossing of the river, then the pezhetairoi swinging left to flank the Greek mercenary
nfantry, at the same time as they were being attacked from the front by the rest of the
eavy infantry. Finally we have the hypaspists, once across the river, swinging to the
ight to attack Darius in the opposing flank to Alexander.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_110instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Image\page_110instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_111instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Image\page_111instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_112instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_113instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_114instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_115instance0.jpg]

Page 116, Instance 1, Class: Text
The escape of Darius after his defeat at Issus presented Alexander with a major
strategic decision: pursue Darius into the Persian heartlands; or continue south, as he had
been doing, along the coast. To pursue Darius would be to leave the major Persian
strongholds of Phoenicia and Egypt unconquered, as well as leaving the still active
Persian fleet with bases from which potentially to take the battle to Greece, as had been
Memnon’s strategy the previous year.’** The decision appears not to have been a difficult
one for Alexander. He immediately set off south along the Phoenician coast towards
Tyre, and ultimately Egypt. We also have to realise that for a man raised in the Greek
world it would have been natural to wish to complete the conquest of the Mediterranean
basin before moving further into the Persian heartlands.


Page 117, Instance 1, Class: Text
lefensive fortifications’™ as their primary motive for resisting Alexander. Diodorus’ on
he other hand saw it as part of a grand strategy on the part of the Persians to resist
Alexander: this seems unlikely.’


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_117instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_118instance1.jpg]

Page 118, Instance 2, Class: Text
peech occurring before Tyre is highly likely, given that it appears in various forms in our
wo main sources, but the specific contents are certainly not recoverable. Arrian makes
wo further curious statements before the siege proper begins; the first that “Alexander
ad no difficulty in persuading his officers that the attempt upon Tyre must be made”;”””
he second that “in spite of all the difficulties...Alexander’s decision to attack...was
ccepted”.’7 Perhaps this is a rare insight into the command structure of the army: are we
o infer, for example, that there was ever a doubt surrounding the decision and the support
hat Alexander received from his commanders? It is difficult to see what Arrian is trying
narhiava at thie nnint


Page 119, Instance 1, Class: Text
King Nebuchadnezzar in the sixth century. 10a man like Alexander, however, this
would have acted as a spur and not a deterrent. Following the speech to the troops, and
the senior commanders apparently agreeing to besiege the citadel, Alexander was faced
with the obvious problem of how to undertake such a task. Given that Alexander
possessed no significant fleet,” certainly not one that would be comparable to that ot
Tyre, he was left with little alternative to the most direct method: to construct a mole
from the mainland to the island, thus connecting it to the land and allowing his troops tc
attack the city directly.’ One imagines Philip would have either agreed to the Tyrian
ferms or used some subterfuge to capture the city; Alexander was not Philip.


Page 119, Instance 2, Class: Text
EEE
7 May, Stadler and Votan, 1984, 34; Fuller, 1958, 101; Ashley, 1998, 239.
780 None that was present at least, Curtius 4.1.36, mentions that Alexander, shortly before Tyre, summoned
his fleet from Greece to the Hellespont where it defeated Aristomenes and a Persian fleet.
781 The idea of a mole could have come from Dionysius I’s use of the same device in his siege of Motya in
397, Diodorus 14.48.3,51; cf Bosworth, 1980, 240.
78 Polyaenus 4.3.3. Claiming that Alexander took a basket and started work on the mole himself, a
symbolic act much like throwing the spear into the ground at the crossing into Asia and claiming it “land
won by the spear”. This act is also reminiscent of the commencement of modern building projects.
78 Arrian 2.18.3; Curtius 4.2.18; cf: Bosworth, 1980, 240.
784 Arrian 2.18.3. The siege as a whole lasting nine months; roughly January to September.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_119instance3.jpg]

Page 120, Instance 1, Class: Text
As the mole approached deeper water, closer to the fortress, the Tyrians evidently
yecame worried. Once within range of projectile weapons fired from the city, the
onstruction teams came under constant attack, both from the walls and from seabome
aids at various points along the mole.”*° To counter these raids, the Macedonians
onstructed two siege towers on the mole; they were intended to be higher than the city
valls, so that missiles could be rained down upon the defenders,” thus preventing them
rom attacking the construction workers. Anticipating an incendiary attack, and leaming
rom the mistake at Halicarnassus, he had the towers covered with skins and hides to
rotect them.”’ Curtius several times mentions another key factor: the mole was
nstable.”* One suspects that this was due partly due to insufficient foundations,
specially once the huge towers were built, but partly because of the prevailing winds and
ssociated waves. Curtius also mentions @ storm that caused considerable damage to the
a2] oo eS 8 Se NS Ue


Page 120, Instance 2, Class: Text
If, as noted earlier, the idea of a mole originated with the siege of Motya,”™ then
the idea of protecting the workers with siege engines would no doubt have come from the
same precedent. The surprising thing is that it did not occur to Alexander to protect the
mole and the workers in some way before suffering casualties. This reactive nature of
Alexander’s strategy is confirmed by both Arrian and Curtius who make it clear that the
towers were there for the defence of the mole;”” they were not the towers that were used


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Image\page_120instance3.jpg]

Page 121, Instance 1, Class: Text
to assault the walls later in the siege, as described by Diodorus.’” If Alexander had taken
the time to protect the workers properly, this would have slowed the progress of the mole;
what we see is a mistake on the part of Alexander, one caused by his impatience and
carelessness, as the siege was already several months old and he had not engaged the
enemy yet: this impatience led to an overall delay which is exactly what he was trying to


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_121instance2.jpg]

Page 121, Instance 3, Class: Text
During the first stage of the siege, the Tyrians showed themselves to be more
exible and proactive than the Macedonians — the fire ship is another example. The
yrians filled a transport vessel with brushwood’”? and other flammable materials, set uf
vin masts in its bows, from each of which were suspended cauldrons of pitch. The vessel
as heavily ballasted aft,’”"* which meant the front of the vessel was out of the water
lowing it to run aground on the mole more easily.” The vessel was evidently a horse
ansport of no ordinary Greek style;’°° Curtius stresses its enormous size and thus the
mnint af flammahte material that 2+ nanld pamteate, 197


Page 122, Instance 1, Class: Text
PUIVAGIAIRE © 1LETIGEN SUGIeE YY LU GLLUOR LI TU Die QUOCUOUS SHNUNANCOUSLY. UNS 1s HOW
he ultimately managed to capture the city. Not to follow that strategy until this point
seems incredible, and a very significant mistake. The lack of a fleet made during the
initial stages of the siege made the tactic impossible, of course, and it is probably an
example of Alexander’s arrogance that he attempted to capture the city essentially by
brute force. The failure to defend the mole properly is also a mistake, his impatience to
blame there; he evidently believed that taking the time to build abatis along the edges of
the mole and to properly protect the towers would have slowed progress that was already
proceeding too slowly for Alexander’s liking. It is sobering, however, that this failure
resulted in far greater delays than if he had taken proper precautions initially.

Curtius presents us with a picture of a depressed Alexander, a man undecided
whether to continue with the siege, or to abandon it;?” his decision to stay only coming
with the arrival of the Cyprian fleet. This is almost certainly another instance of Curtius
misunderstanding his sources. It is likely that Alexander considered leaving, but not that
he considered abandoning the siege. The history of his career tells us that he could never
admit that he had been beaten, and thus Tyre had to fall. I see little reason to doubt,
however, that Alexander himself considered leaving the siege, perhaps with Perdiccas in
charge, and continuing the advance towards Egypt. Alexander was a man of action and
sitting for several months while the mole was constructed without being able to engage
the enemy at all would have been unbelievably frustrating for him. We do have an
example of a similar action, the siege of Halicarnassus; here Alexander left before the
final fall of the city to continue the campaign, leaving some troops behind to complete the
capture. There may well have been discussions along these lines which Curtius confused.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_122instance2.jpg]

Page 123, Instance 1, Class: Text
engines, as well as in cooking fires), and partly to relieve his own frustrations and those
of his men after being unable to engage the Tyrians properly.*” It is important to note
that Curtius®” places the expedition against the “Arabs” before the assault by the fire
ship. This seems an obvious device to remove any blame from Alexander by having him
away on expedition in the Lebanese Mountains at the time.®!° Once Alexander returned to
Sidon, he found Cleander waiting with 4,000 much-needed Greek mercenary
reinforcements from the Peloponnese.*!!


Page 123, Instance 2, Class: Text
With his new fleet properly equipped, Alexander embarked as many of his foo
Idiers as he could into triremes. Arrian*" tells us that this was because he assumed tha
e anticipated naval engagement would involve close-order fighting rather thar
ditional naval tactics. This statement of Arrian is extremely informative of Alexander’
rategic thinking. We know from his reluctance at Halicarnassus that Alexander wa:
tute enough to realise that he had little knowledge or experience of naval warfare
erefore he refused a skirmish in that instance. Here we have Alexander with superiorit)
“numbers (or at least near equality), yet he still assumes that the action will essential:
> a land battle fought at sea; he fails to improvise and adapt to this environment - th
ily instance in his career of this kind of lack of adaptability and an unwillingness t


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_123instance3.jpg]

Page 124, Instance 1, Class: Text
northern harbour, the Phoenician navy outside the southern.*” Further to this the mole
had reached the walls. Alexander was now in a position in which he could press from all
sides: from this point it was only a matter of time for the defenders.


Page 124, Instance 2, Class: Text
1ad reached the walls. Alexander was now in a position in which he could press from a
sides: from this point it was only a matter of time for the defenders.

There is a variation on the tradition, however, preserved in the text of Diodorus.®
In this alternative tradition, the Tyrians were in the process of launching an assault upo
he mole when Alexander appeared with the newly acquired fleet and tried to cut off the
etreat, whilst making an attempt on the Sidonian*!? harbour at the same time. The ke
slements of the episode also appear in Polyaenus.®”? The only common factor in th
Diodorus and Arrian/Curtius traditions is the sinking of the three Tyrian ships defendin
he harbour mouth.*! Even this, however, is problematic; Diodorus places the sinking «
he three ships much later in the siege, when the naval blockade had been in force fc
some time.®”* Either there is a gap in the narrative of Arrian, or else the vulgate traditio
1as fabricated additional details, or conflated known details in a way common throughot


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_124instance3.jpg]

Page 125, Instance 1, Class: Text
with artillery and battering rams. This reference in Curtius, supported by Arrian,”” to all
points around Tyre being attacked by artillery and rams is key; it demonstrates that
Alexander had equipped some of his triremes with stone-throwing catapults as well as
rams, an ingenious strategy. Diodorus tells us that the catapults were used directly against
the walls, and Marsden*®” believes that this is the first time in history that stone-throwing
catapults were used in such a way, although it is likely that this happened at
Halicarnassus,®*' and probably even Miletus shortly before that. While the catapults
would have been placed on individual ships, the rams were a different story. Diodorus*”
tells us that triremes were lashed together and siege towers built on them, thus allowing
the rams to attack higher up the walls where they would be weaker. Curtius supports this
claim, stating that pairs of quadriremes were tied together at the prows, forming a delta
shape with the central section being boarded over acting as a platform for troops.®3
Arrian mentions both types of vessel; the ones carrying artillery or rams, and the troop
transports.*** They were clearly intended to be used as a combined arms force, one
providing covering fire for the other as the walls were stormed.®> Alexander was using
the kind of land-based tactics that had proved so successful, the integrated use of a
variety of troop types, and adapting it to a new environment; something that he did time


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_125instance2.jpg]

Page 126, Instance 1, Class: Text
indmills*”? that were used to deflect projectiles thrown by catapults.**? Curtius tells us
f barbed grappling irons and shields piled with red hot sand that were then dropped on
esiegers who could have no defence against such an attack. Tarn®“* dismisses these
yrian inventions, as well as others in Arrian’s text, as being little more than a copy from
Hellenistic textbook on siege warfare, ignoring the fact that both Arrian and Curtius
craa an tha data] af ocurh dauvinac


Page 126, Instance 2, Class: Text
It is no doubt a serious exaggeration on the part of Arrian, or more likely
olemy,* to put the height of the city walls opposite the mole at 45m, although some
ve accepted it without question.*”° If the walls had been this height, there would have
-en no need for the defenders to build additional wooden towers on the ramparts in
der to be higher than Alexander’s siege towers.’ The only references to the
mensions of the walls made by either Curtius or Diodorus®* are to the secondary wall
at the Tyrians built as insurance against the first failing; this was ten cubits thick and
ve cihite hehind the niuter wal]


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_126instance3.jpg]

Page 127, Instance 1, Class: Text
Granicus, Gaza and the eastern sieges. Alexander shows himself to be a commander who
does not instantly make the correct decisions when faced with a situation he has never
seen, but quickly learns and adapts.


Page 127, Instance 2, Class: Text
*52 Cooking a meal on board ship would have been all but impossible in conditions that probably would
have been even more cramped than usual with the siege engines and extra troops that they were carrying.
Ashley, 1998, 243,458.
*®? Arrian 2.21.6-8. The size of the fleet, or lack thereof, suggests that the Tyrians either did not have many
vessels left at their disposal, or that they were running short of qualified men to sail in them.
SS The Egyptian harbour being the southern of the two ports of Tyre.

Arrian 2.21.8-9.
‘5° We need not assume that this was any more than chance, such as some kind of advance intelligence; if it
had been then the Cyprian fleet would surely not have been left so vulnerable.
‘57 Arrian 2.22.1f.
58 Examples include Herodotus 6.78; Thucydides 7.39f; Xenophon, Hellenica 2.1.24ff.
5° Ashley, 1998, 243.
60 Resources must have been running seriously low in Tyre, particularly food and fresh water.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_127instance3.jpg]

Page 128, Instance 1, Class: Text
After the repulse at the breach, there was a lull in the fighting. Diodorus®” tells us
hat Alexander made an offer to accept the surrender of Tyre. The offer, if real, was not
opular amongst the Macedonian high command; only Amyntas son of Adromenes


Page 128, Instance 2, Class: Text
EEE IEE GEIS IIE IIE GEIGER ADR BEN rw SA NEE R Nw BS
fleet gone, the defenders were in a desperate situation.*? The walls on the landward side
of the city were, apparently, far too strong to be breached by the siege engines positioned
there.*® The walls to the north of the city proved to be equally strong, but the walls to the
south were weaker. A considerable length of wall shook after a prolonged assault and
finally collapsed.° Arrian tells us that Alexander, almost immediately, made a rather
tentative and probing attack that was easily repulsed.®® The impression we get from both
Curtius and especially Diodorus is of something more serious. The failure of this attempt,
according to Curtius,*© led Alexander for a second time to consider abandoning the siege
altogether and heading for Egypt, but again Alexander could not abandon the siege; his
career again tells us that he was a man who evidently could not tolerate failure, his own
or that in others, and he resolved to continue the siege. However, Atkinson®” has argued,
quite correctly, that this section of Curtius owes more to romance than history; Curtius
also tells us of a sea creature that rose from the waters and came to rest upon the mole.
The breach in the wall was probably not large, and almost certainly not down to

the foundations as implied by Diodorus.®* More than likely a section of the ramparts
gave way, as described by Arrian; but this was important as it meant the attackers did not
have to fear red-hot sand, and the other defensive countermeasures, as they made their
final assault. Arrian gives us a picture of Alexander probing the city at all points, the
Anfanen Aner enters Siew hes 2. nw Lo "88 er |


Page 128, Instance 3, Class: Text
> Imply perhaps not even on the mole when he argues that they can only be used on land: Curtius 4,26.1
nd 4.27.1, shows us that they were mounted on ships; cf. Bosworth, 1980, 251, for arguments against
‘arn’s position.

2 Romane, 1987, 84-85.

* Arrian 2.22.6-7; Curtius 4.3.13-18; Diodorus 17.43.3-44.5.

* Diodorus 17.43.3-5.

* Arrian 2.22.6.

* Curtius 4.4.1.

7 Atkinson, 1980, 308. That Alexander seriously considered abandoning the siege at this point must be
ismissed, although it is entirely possible, as noted earlier, that he considered leaving a small contingent to
omplete the capture of the city, as he had done at Halicarnassus. Cf. above, p.120.

* Diodorus 17.43.4 states that the wall was thrown down to the length of a plethron.

® Arrian 2.22.7.

° As noted many times, attacking from various points at once was Alexander’s favoured stratagem.

' Romane, 1987, 85.


Page 129, Instance 1, Class: Text
supported it." Ihe LTyrians were given two days to surrender; on the third the final
assault began.*”* A delay is also attested in Arrian, although he attributes it to bad
weather; and in Curtius,*” where the chronology of the final stages is confused. The final
assault began with an artillery barrage which was a precursor those that were to become
so common during World War II offensives.*”® After the naval barrage, which we can
assume was conducted around the whole circumference of the city, a taxis of hypaspists
under Admetus attacked the breach.*’” Admetus was killed by a spear before gaining the
walls,°’® but Alexander, who was also present, pressed forward and soon the southern
sector of the city walls was in Macedonian hands. It is clear from our sources that the
troops were well drilled and commanded: they did not simply pour into the city as might
have been expected, but remained in the vicinity of the walls to ensure the breach was


Page 129, Instance 2, Class: Text
There was now a general collapse of the Tyrian defences; the Phoenician fleet
successfully forced an entry into the Egyptian harbour and made short work of the enemy
fleet stationed there; the Cyprian fleet had similar success to the north.°8° Most of the
Tyrian soldiers that remained alive withdrew to the shrine of Agenor, the father of
Cadmus, who was the legendary founder of Tyre and Sidon,**! with the intention of
making a last stand; they were not disappointed. Arrian tells us the slaughter was terrible,
the Macedonians were allowed to vent their fury at such a brutal siege upon the
survivors.*** Some 8,000 Tyrians were killed and the remaining 30,000 were sold into
slaverv. as was the usual nractice 233


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_129instance3.jpg]

Page 130, Instance 1, Class: Text
however, we see that many of Alexander’s great innovations were in fact enforced
reactions to Tyrian inventiveness. We see Alexander making a series of key errors, such
as pushing work on the mole at the expense of defending it properly, which led to its
destruction and a major delay, as well as not anticipating a noon sortie against his fleet.
We also see Alexander’s lack of creativity as an admiral, using essentially land based
tactics for his fleet. This said, however, Alexander certainly showed himself very capable
of adapting to new situations and new defensive measures with increasingly elaborate
ideas of his own. That Alexander captured Tyre is beyond doubt and we should recognise
that fact; the victory was due as much to persistence and the quality of his troops as it was
to innovation. We should also note, as a final point, that king Azemilcus was one of the
most able commanders he ever faced, and should be given the honour that he deserves.


Page 130, Instance 2, Class: Text
The siege of Gaza lasted two months, and contained some extremely interestin
sights into Alexander’s ability as a siege commander. It seems to have been treated, i
| of our sources, as something of an interlude between the great siege of Tyre and th
ents in Egypt: because of this much information has inevitably been lost.


Page 130, Instance 3, Class: Text
Tyre was no doubt one of Alexander’s greatest military achievements, albeit not a
series of unremitting innovations as some may wish to suggest. In terms of strategy, Gaza
was at least as interesting; although always understandably overshadowed by Tyre, and
not examined in anything like the detail it deserves.***


Page 130, Instance 4, Class: Text
The siege of Gaza is mentioned in all of our surviving sources,** as is to b
pected of a two-month siege. Only two, however, give any significant details: Arriai
d Curtius.*** Arrian’s account lacks depth; it tends to focus on personalities**” rathe
an technical details, and although it does provide us with a reasonable chronology o
ents, the account is brief and much must have been missed;*** that is to say nothing o
e evident errors that will be discussed more fully later." Curtius’ account, on the othe
ind, is shorter but contains a greater amount of technical information. On this occasion
urtius’ source is evidently the superior one.*”° Hammond has argued that Curtius
urce for the Gaza campaign was Cleitarchus, and I see little reason to disagree wit
is, although, as Rutz noted,*”! Curtius’ narrative shows enough similarities with Arria
id Diodorus for us to conclude that Cleitarchus was not Curtius’ only source. Much o


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_131instance1.jpg]

Page 132, Instance 1, Class: Text
e captured; although Alexander probably had contact with what we would now call the
gyptian resistance, he could not be certain of the welcome he would receive. If the
gyptians proved hostile, Darius could easily trap him between Egypt and Palestine using
ee eee i ee


Page 132, Instance 2, Class: Text
6 2b
Gaza was situated 20 stades’'* from the Mediterranean coast and was a city of
gnificant size. Arrian tells us that the city was well-sited on a tell and surrounded by a
enellated wall.°'> No other source, however, ever gives the impression that Gaza was at
il elevated above the surrounding terrain. The modern city is located on a low hill 18-
Om high and around 3km in circumference,’ but this should not be used to support
rrian’s assertion, as the current mound could simply be the result of material deposited


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_132instance3.jpg]

Page 133, Instance 1, Class: Text
8 Arrian 2.26.2.

° Curtius 4.6.8; Arrian 2.26.2.

0 Arrian 2.26.2. This turf wall (or circumvallation) was not the first of its kind in Greek history, but
ecame far more widely used during the Roman Republic and later. There remains a question, however: if
;aza was located in a desert and surrounded by sand, where did Alexander get enough turf to construct a
ircumvallation? The answer could be that the area was more fertile in the fourth century, and thus there
as more turf than there is at present. It seems unlikely that the immediate area was more fertile, given that
1¢ events of the siege strongly imply that the area was indeed very sandy. It seems likely either that the
irf came from some distance or that Arrian simply made a mistake in using the wrong terminology (i.e. the
vail was not made of turf).

1 Arrian 2.26.2.

? Arrian 2.26.3.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_133instance2.jpg]

Page 134, Instance 1, Class: Text
of the siege engines became bogged down in the soft sand.” There is no hint of this in
Arrian, for whom the main difficulty was the height of the mound and the strength of the
walls.°?° Every effort is made by Arrian to present the fortifications as impregnable and
hie maonity the difficuitu af the ciece


Page 134, Instance 2, Class: Text
There are many problems with the accounts of the early part of the siege. Curtius
must be incorrect in stating that the assault on the walls was a diversionary tactic; this
theory would certainly fit well with Alexander’s general plan, which I have argued for
throughout this thesis, of attacking at various points at once. There would, however, have
been no need for a diversion at this time: the point was to collapse the walls, and the more
defenders that were in that area when the walls did collapse, the better for Alexander. The
attack must have been a serious attempt by Alexander to carry the siege and prevent the
work required on the mining operations. The fact that Alexander did not wait for the bulk
of his siege engines is either an indication of impatience or a sign that the walls were not


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_134instance3.jpg]

Page 135, Instance 1, Class: Text
\ bird flying overhead let fall a clod of earth which
struck him (Alexander) on the shoulder. The bird
then perched upon one of the siege engines and
immediately became entangled in the network of
sinews which were used to tighten up the ropes.


Page 135, Instance 2, Class: Text
For the purposes of this thesis, a full discussion of the incident of the crow and the
clod of earth is unnecessary, save to say that Plutarch states that:°°


Page 135, Instance 3, Class: Text
Curtius’™' account is the more interesting, however. He states that the bird landed
yn the nearest siege tower and that its wings became stuck on the surface, a surface that
iad been smeared with pitch and sulphur. The question is why would a siege tower be
meared with pitch and sulphur? These chemicals were used in the ancient world as
ncendiaries,”** not as flame retardants that we might expect to cover the visible side of a
siege tower. This exact combination of chemicals is what the Spartans had used against
he Plataeans during the siege of that city in 429. This very siege may have formed part of
he model for Alexander’s attack on Gaza as the Spartans also made use of mounds of
-arth, and built a circumvallation, just as Alexander was doing.’ Along with the siege of
Plataea, the Peloponnesian War perhaps also provides an explanation for the pitch and
sulphur on Alexander’s siege towers. Thucydides provides this climactic description of
ba fallafthe Athenjan-held-_fortification at Delinm in 424/3°2°*


Page 135, Instance 4, Class: Text
The Boeotians took the fort by an engine of the following
description. They sawed in two and scooped out a great beam
from end to end and fitted it together again like a pipe. They
hung by chains a cauldron at one extremity, with which
communicated an iron tube projecting from the beam, and this
they brought up on carts to the part of the wall composed of
vines and timber and inserted huge bellows into their end of the
beam and blew with them. The blast passing closely confined
into the cauldron, filled with lighted coals, sulphur and pitch
1ade a great blaze and set fire to the wall and made it impossible
for the defenders to remain at their posts. They abandoned their
eg dg td. nel nn thn LnetifMnatinnea tqwarea Ppantirad


Page 136, Instance 1, Class: Text
After what Curtius describes as something of an assassination attempt on the par
one of the Arab mercenaries,””” Alexander organised the hypaspists and attached th
rabs who had sortied from the town. During this assault, Alexander was struck by a bol
9m a catapult stationed upon the walls. The bolt penetrated his shield and cuirass anc
ruck him in the shoulder. The wound was grievous, and Alexander was carried from thi
‘Id. The defenders evidently believed that they had slain the Macedonian king, anc


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_136instance2.jpg]

Page 136, Instance 3, Class: Text
Despite the incident involving the raven, Alexander ordered the siege engines
forward. The sand was far too soft, however, and the engines quickly became bogged
down in the loose and shifting ground. With the Macedonians under constant missile
bombardment from the defenders, Alexander ordered a retreat.”> As the Macedonian:
were struggling to execute the order, and extricate their siege equipment from such an
impossible situation, Batis ordered a sortie from the city. This is the picture presented by
Curtius at least; Arrian®*® presents a slightly different version. In Arrian, Alexander is
found holding back from the initial assault and only joins the battle as Batis counter-
attacks. This tactic fits precisely with what we consistently see from Alexander: drawing
the enemy onto ground of his choosing. At Halicarnassus Alexander was taken by
sence hy Memnnn’c cortie Kit at Gaga he wae hanking an Ratie making the came


Page 137, Instance 1, Class: Text
on to the top of the circumvallation, but rather into the gaps that I assume were located at
various points around the circuit.


Page 137, Instance 2, Class: Text
The story found in Curtius,”*! although interestingly not Arrian, of Batis being
dragged behind Alexander’s chariot whilst still alive, around the circuit of the city is an
intriguing one. The Homeric story presents Achilles dragging Hector’s corpse behind his
chariot, but here Batis is still alive. Green”? sees little difficulty with the discrepancy,
stating that there was also, along with the Homeric tradition, a tradition of Hector still
being alive during the incident at Troy. Lane Fox”? defends the historicity of the story by
claiming that this was a Thessalian punishment, but the sources present no evidence to
support this assertion. The most we can say is that such an act would have appealed to
Alexander’s sense of kinship with Achilles. The absence of this story from our other
sources is puzzling, except to say that incidents that a flattering source may have
considered unworthy of Alexander could easily have been omitted.


Page 138, Instance 1, Class: Text
We may imagine that the mad dash that was the end of the siege is
characteristic of the Macedonians. During the final stages, however, when booty was
ere for the taking and the Macedonians were about to fall upon the civilian population,
th all that that entailed, it was probably all but impossible for Alexander to maintain
y kind of discipline. There would also have been a significant element of competition
tween senior commanders as to who broke into the city first. Perhaps the real surprise
that some cities were left standing after being taken by force by the Macedonians.


Page 138, Instance 2, Class: Text
The siege of Gaza presents us with a situation virtually unique in Alexander’s
areer, a city built on sand rather than hard rock.” This topography allowed Alexander
) perform sapping operations that we see nowhere else, operations that ultimately were a
undamental part of the fall of the city. As at Tyre a few months earlier, Alexander was
resented with a situation that required a novel solution, and he was not found wanting.
\long with this new tactic, we see old tactics employed to great effect. As noted several
mes, Alexander’s key tactic is to attack from multiple locations at once. At Gaza he
chieves this by employing the circumvallation with artillery pieces at various points,
long with the use of rams and siege towers, along with the final ingenious element of the
1ining operations. Gaza, like Tyre before it, shows Alexander to be someone highly
apable of creating innovative strategies when the need arises,”°> or the situation allows
ye it.


Page 139, Instance 1, Class: Text
Diodorus does not give us a continuous narrative of the battle,?*° but insteac
ncentrates on set pieces: The Persian scythed chariots, the capture of the Macedoniar
gage train,”’ and the duel between Alexander and Darius. The only part of the battle
t is narrated is the action involving the Thessalians towards the very end.”° 8 Diodorus’
‘ount has a tendency to be rather more graphic than that of Arrian: the Persian scythec
riots slicing off arms and severing heads, for instance. In Plutarch,”°’ Alexander only
ws Darius from a distance; but in Diodorus, Alexander gets close enough to throw <
sar at the Great King which kills the driver of his chariot. The very account of Darius’
*ht shows colour that is lacking in other sources; occurring as it does in a cloud of dust
+. .oe teh A. It oe 1... 960


Page 139, Instance 2, Class: Text
BELA VUVi

After the battle of Issus, Alexander took the key strategic decision not to chase
Yarius into the Persian heartlands, but instead to continue his policy of defeating the
ersian navy at sea by continuing south along the coast towards Tyre. Once Egypt had
yeen ‘liberated’ he was finally now in a position to return his attentions to the Great King
ind force a conclusion once and for all. Gaugamela presents us with just as many
lifficulties in reconstruction and interpretation as do the other set-piece battles; as with
hem, the main problems arise from significant differences in the surviving source
naterial. Before attempting a reconstruction of the battle, and an understanding of
Alexander’s strategy, we must first discuss some of the difficulties with these sources.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_139instance3.jpg]

Page 139, Instance 4, Class: Text
Parmenio is treated favourably by Diodorus, a fact which presents a number of
‘oblems. This treatment decreases the likelihood” that he was influenced by the
-gative sentiment in Callisthenes.* Devine’® argued that the prominent place of the
hessalian cavalry in both Diodorus and Plutarch suggests a commonality of sources; but
think it more likely that, in the absence of specific passages that are obviously from the
me source, their prominent role in both was simply a reflection of actual events; that is


Page 140, Instance 1, Class: Text
to say that they in fact did have a significant role in the battle. It has been argued””” that
this commonality of source is a reflection of the pan-Hellenic nature of Callisthenes; but
the prominent role of Parmenio, and not just of the Thessalians, calls this into question.
Devine goes on to argue for an as yet unidentified common source, despite
Hammond’s”™ confidence that the common source is in fact Cleitarchus.

The incident of the call for help by Parmenio, just after he began the pursuit of
Darius,” is also interesting. Again, it shows no malice towards Parmenio at all, but
simply presents a picture of the Thessalians in genuine difficulty asking for help.
Diodorus, in common with Arrian, simply presents Alexander’s response without
comment, unlike Plutarch and Curtius who note Alexander’s frustration. Interestingly,
along with Diodorus’ attributing no blame to Parmenio for this incident, he also attributes
no blame to Alexander.*™ Diodorus’ account is far less useful than Curtius or Arrian, but
surely deserves more than to be called “childish and worthless” as in Hammond?


Page 140, Instance 2, Class: Text
*4 Schachermeyr, 1973, 269; Kaerst, 1927, 394 n.1, 165 n.1 and 338 n.1; cf Atkinson, 1980, 243-244 and
454-455, for a discussion.

*5 Devine, 1986, 90.

6 Hammond, 1983, 20-27; 51; 173 n.11.

67 Or perhaps just before the pursuit began.

*8 Devine, 1986, 90.

* Hammond, 1980, 138.

0 Devine, 1986, 89.

7”! Polyaenus Strat. 4.3.6.

2 Polyaenus Strat. 4.3.17; Essentially holes dug into the ground so that charging cavalry would step in the
holes and break their legs, a form of ancient land mines.

”} Arrian 3.13.1.


Page 140, Instance 3, Class: Text
Polyaenus is our least important surviving source, although he still offers some
interesting information. He again offers no continuous narrative of the battle, but at two
points recounts key anecdotes.””” The first is a recounting of the Persian attack on the
Macedonian baggage train, as well as Alexander’s reply to Parmenio’s plea for
assistance.”’' Polyaenus’ version follows the tradition that denigrated Parmenio, and thus
probably finds its source in Callisthenes. This is not something that Polyaenus places
great emphasis upon, however; rather he uses the episode to highlight the dictum that he
who would protect his baggage risks jeopardising the bulk of the army. The second
anecdote of note regards the Persian caltrops””” that were prepared on the battlefield
before the Macedonians arrived. Polyaenus claims Alexander’s movement to the right
before the battle was to avoid these devices. The Persian reaction, moving their line to the
left to maintain the integrity of their flank, resulted in the line breaking. This break was
brilliantly exploited by Alexander; the incident is accurately described and shows
significant similarities with the relevant section in Arrian.°”?


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_141instance1.jpg]

Page 142, Instance 1, Class: Text
Macedonian army as also being prone to panic.”*° The over-generalised statement that he
puts in the mouth of Parmenio, that “soldiers, he said, were more prone to groundless and
irrational fears than to those having some justification” is unlikely to be true of any
successful veteran army; nor does it seem likely that a commander would have such a low
opinion of his own core troops. Devine notes that here, Curtius, like Tacitus, is
misappl ving rhetorical clichés about the inctahility af the moh 22”


Page 142, Instance 2, Class: Text
86 Curtius 4.12.14; 4.15.2; 4.15.9.

87 Devine, 1986, 91. Atkinson, 1980, 390.

"88 Curtius 4.16.1; 4.16.4.

8? Curtius 4.15.2.

0 For example, two taxeis of pezhetairoi (Craterus and Meleager) are omitted from the Macedonian order
of battle (4.13.26-31). An incorrect distinction is made between the phalanx and a taxis of the pezhetairoi
(4.13.28). Craterus is a cavalry commander rather than a taxiarch (4.13.29) as in Arrian, the Agrianians
become cavalry troops (nowhere else attested and I assume an error, 4.15.21-22), and finally, the rear line
of infantry begin the battle facing away from the enemy (3.13.31); Devine, 1986, 91.

”" Curtius 4.12.6-7.

2 Arrian 3.11.3-7.

* Curtius 4.12.6-7 for example, a picture of the Persian left wing.

4 Curtius 4.9.9-10.

5 Curtius 4.12.13. Devine, 1986, 92.

5 See above p.20.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_142instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_143instance1.jpg]

Page 144, Instance 1, Class: Text
'* We can only speculate that Ptolemy probably had not returned from a scouting mission. Alexander’s
advance to Gaugamela was slow, as discussed below, and numerous scouting and foraging parties would
have been in the field at any given time.

15 Bosworth, 1976, 29-33; cf. Devine, 1986, 93.

1006 ‘At the end of the 19" century, Wilcken, 1894, 119 (1932 reprint used, same page) argued that Ptolemy
was writing towards the end of his life (perhaps around 288 to 283/2), Tarn, 1948, 2.19, 2.43 followed this,
as did Kornemann, 1935, 30-39; as well as others. More recently, Errington, 1969, 233-242, Pearson, 1960,
193, Badian, 1976, 35-36 and Bosworth, 1976, 1-33, Devine, 1986, 93f have all argued that Ptolemy’s work
belongs to his early period in Egypt, when he had more reason to enhance his own reputation at the expense
of the likes of Perdiccas, Leonnatus, Polyperchon and Antigonus. Hammond, 1983, 37-38 has recently
attempted to reassert the older view, suggesting a publishing date of around 285-283. I tend to follow
Hammond in this and believe that the work was written towards the end of his life.

1007 Engels, 1978, 27, 64.

1008 Bosworth, 1988, 74; Arrian 3.6.1.

1009 Bosworth, 1988, 233.


Page 144, Instance 2, Class: Text
sonclusion that the account of Callisthenes was probably Arrian’s main source for
Faugamela. '*

In reproducing or adapting large sections of Callisthenes’ official account,
Ptolemy could easily excise Callisthenes’! many misrepresentations that would have
seen included at the approval of Alexander himself. At the time of Ptolemy’s writing, °°
oth Alexander and Parmenio were long dead, so he would have had little reason simply
o reproduce Callisthenes blindly, especially where he had knowledge to the contrary. We
should finally note that Ptolemy would have been unwilling, even after Alexander’s
Jeath, to impugn his military reputation; the figure of Alexander loomed large over the
successors for many years after 323.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_144instance3.jpg]

Page 145, Instance 1, Class: Text
eace, but of his readiness for battle, thus goading Alexander into action; the second is
slated to this, Alexander’s renowned impatience. He had already delayed the decisive
attle with Darius for over a year and he was no doubt desperate to force a conclusion:
1is rashness in Alexander’s character could so often have proved fatal; but here, as in the
ast of his career, luck was to be on his side, !°!2


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_145instance2.jpg]

Page 146, Instance 1, Class: Text
army in Babylon, but there is little evidence that he remained in Babylon at the time of
Alexander’s crossing of the Euphrates. Curtius tells us that the Persians began to marshal
when Alexander was in Egypt, '°2 and we know his march north-east was slow, with a
lengthy stop in Tyre; the Persians, therefore, had plenty of time to train and equip their
a oe a i nn ns es oe. ee on ae


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_146instance2.jpg]

Page 147, Instance 1, Class: Text
he was in the Gaugamela region, or that Alexander was drawing him in that direction.'°
The very mention of Babylon tells us that Alexander was fully aware of the strategic
situation whilst at Thapsacus.


Page 147, Instance 2, Class: Text
Alexander crossed the 2,400 stades, or 460km,'~* between Thapsacus and the
crossing point on the Tigris'”? relatively slowly. Assuming Alexander set out around the
1030 Marsden, 1974, 13.

1031 Atexander’s speech before Issus, Arrian 2.7.3-9; cf. Bosworth, 1980, 204. We can also assume,
although there is no positive evidence, that Alexander was aware of the use of rafts to cross a river in
Xenophon, Anabasis 1.5.10.

1032 For topography of Gaugamela see 147-8.

1033 Marsden, 1974, 14.

'°34 Strabo 2.1.38. Engels, 1974, 68f Marsden, 1974, 22, claims 527km for the same journey. Engels,
1987, 70 n.86 believes that all of Marsden’s distance figures are too high, although why this is the case he
does not argue.

'®5 That likely being the Abu Dhahir (see below p.147 n.1042); Marsden, 1974, 22 argues for the Abu
Wajnam.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_147instance3.jpg]

Page 148, Instance 1, Class: Text
The force of the current swept away many who were
crossing and deprived them of their footing, and as
the water struck their shields, it bore many off their

course and brought them into extreme danger.


Page 148, Instance 2, Class: Text
036 Engels, 1974, 153.

037 Marsden, 1974, 22; Bosworth, 1980, 285 notes that Alexander’s rate of march seems excessively slow
or an army that was, according to both Arrian (3.7.5) and Curtius (4.9.13), in a hurry.

938 As the force was around 6,000 strong according to Curtius 4.9.12.

9 Arrian 3.7.3.

4 Lane Fox, 1974, 228.

4! Arrian 3.7.3.

™? This was the location of the crossing of the Persian Royal Road over the Tigris: Lane Fox, 1974, 228.
‘or alternative Possible routes from Thapsacus to Arbela see Green, 1974, 284.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_148instance3.jpg]

Page 148, Instance 4, Class: Text
Alexander’s defence against the current was to have his men lock arms; this
vould ensure a certain amount of stability against the force of the current. It also
srobably meant that the shield would be slung over the back, and thus be less likely to
‘atch the water and act as a sort of parachute than if it were carried by hand. Cavalry
vere also probably deployed as a screen slightly upstream to break up the current.


Page 149, Instance 1, Class: Text
After the arduous crossing of the Tigris, Alexander allowed his troops to rest for a
hile. During this time there was an almost total eclipse of the moon; Alexander then
ffered sacrifice to the Sun, Moon and Earth showing a high degree of understanding of
lis astronomical phenomenon. The eclipse reached its peak at 21.12 hrs on September
o 331.' Plutarch notes that it occurred at the same time as the start of the Eleusinian
lysteries in the month of Boedromion, also noting that eleven nights after the eclipse
as the eve of battle.“ In his Camillus, Plutarch gives a date for Gaugamela as 15"
oedromion,'“* which was indeed the beginning of the Eleusinian mysteries. Plutarch’s
ating is internally consistent and provides a synchronous point, 15 Boedromion equates
: 20 September; the battle, therefore, took place on 1“ October 331.'™%


Page 149, Instance 2, Class: Text
Only Arrian and Curtius provide us with any useful topographical details of the
battlefield; the main feature being its flatness, save for the nearby mound of Tell Gomel,
and the presence of two rivers. Arrian tells us that Darius pitched camp on the river
Boumelus, 8 noting that estimated of the distance from Arbela was 600 stades.!? Later
he notes varying estimates of the distance, ranging from 500-600 stades.'° The second
river, the Lycus, was located behind Darius’ lines and only crossed by Alexander while in
pursuit of Darius after the battle.'°*' The Lycus is now known as the Great Zab, and is
around 32km directly east of the battlefield.'°? Curtius'°* is a little more precise in his
information regarding the two rivers; he tells us that Darius left his baggage train at
Arbela, bridged the Lycus River, and advanced the 80 stades to the eventual battlefield.
Curtius’ figure of 80 stades is an underestimate as it is about half the actual distance


Page 149, Instance 3, Class: Text
The location of Gaugamela seems almost certain. Ever since the nineteenth
entury it has been known that the mound of Tell Gomel etymologically preserves the
ame of Gaugamela; the mound itself, however, proved difficult to locate accurately!
schachermeyr established that Tell Gomel lies to the north of the Jabal Maqlub, in the
lain of Nauqur. Modern estimates of the distance between Arbela and Gaugamela vary
etween 80 and 95km, around 420-495 stades.!°%


Page 149, Instance 4, Class: Text
“"™ Arrian 3.7.0. bosworth, 1980, 287.

1645 Plutarch Alex. 31.8. Bosworth, 1980, 287.

1046 Plutarch, Camillus, 19.5.

oes 20" September see Dinsmoor, 1931, 359. 429; 1°' October see Bosworth, 1980, 287.
The modern Boumodus.

1049 A rrian 3.8.7.

1050 A rrian 6.11.6, cf. Bosworth, 1980, 293.

1951 Devine, 1986, 94.

1052 Bosworth, 1980, 312.

1953 Curtius 4.9.9-10.

1054 Curtius 4.9.9; c.15.3km. Bosworth, 1980, 312.

'955 For etymology see Devine, 1986, 94. Stein, for example, identified it with a mound to the south of

Mangqube; ef. Stein, 1942, 155-164.

1056 Schachermeyr, 1973, 270.


Page 150, Instance 1, Class: Text
Both Arrian and Curtius'®” mention a range of hills in front of the Persian
osition. Arrian notes that Alexander crested these hills the night before the battle, and
ighted the enemy some 60 stades away. These hills are almost certainly the Jebel
Aaqlub range.'8 In order to take up his position, Darius would have had to turn off the
toyal Road before reaching Manqube, and march a significant distance to the north. This
novement matched Curtius’ march of 80 stades, as well as allowing for the advance of
N ctadac in ardor af hatt] a 1059


Page 150, Instance 2, Class: Text
Of the topography of the battlefield itself, there is little that can be said. The
ersians had taken up position in a vast featureless plain; they had evidently taken some
me before Alexander’s arrival to level the area artificially to allow for deployment of
eir cavalry and scythed chariots.'°° The only topographical feature of note was 2
retch of ground that remained untouched by the Persians,'©! evidently a range of hills.
arius either did not have time for, or felt they were too far to his left to feature in the
attle.'°°? As always, however, Alexander chose not to fight on his enemies’ chosen
round, but upon his own, and his movement towards these foothills on his right enabled


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_150instance3.jpg]

Page 150, Instance 4, Class: Text
viacedonian Urder oF battle

The battle of Gaugamela was a new challenge to Alexander: he faced Darius or
errain that had been specially prepared to optimise the use of the enemy’s cavalry anc
cythed chariots. The most obvious tactical issue faced by Alexander as a result of the
errain was the discrepancy in troop numbers,’ and the inherent advantages tha
fforded Darius. The discrepancy was so great that a double envelopment was a rea
ossibility against the Macedonians. According to Arrian,’°° Alexander left his cam
inder cover of night, leaving behind the baggage train and intending to force a battle a
lawn. The baggage train reappeared during the battle, however; and we must conclude
hat some baggage, probably replacement weapons, food and water, were brought up tc
he battlefield and left within easy reach of the infantry.'°° The problems do not enc
here, however. No other source mentions a night march, and if Curtius is to be believec
hat the camp was pitched when Darius was still 150 stades away,'%”’ then a prolongec
ight march was remarkably foolish on the part of Alexander.'“* The night march woulc
ave been over unknown eround using guides that were Persian and marching towards <


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_151instance1.jpg]

Page 151, Instance 2, Class: Text
1069 Arrian 3.9.1; Bosworth, 1980, 294.

1070 30 stades (5.76km) from the Persian line, 3.9.3; cf. Bosworth, 1980, 294.

107! Curtius 4.10.15,17ff.

1072 Curtius 4.12.19, 24.

1073 And the location for captured Persian prisoners, 4.13.35; 4.12.2-3.

1074 Curtius 4.15.5f% Arrian 3.14.5-6; cf. Bosworth, 1980, 294.

'075 After a four-day pause, perhaps caused by rumours of hidden traps in the plain set by Darius for
Alexander’s cavalry, Marsden, 1964, 42.

1076 Marsden, 1964, 42, claims that the formations were based upon previous experience: this can hardly be
the case as neither had fought on this terrain before in these circumstances.

077 Devine, 1986, 96.

1078 Devine, 1982, 62-63.

1079 Arrian 11.8-12.5; Curtius 4.13.26-32; Diodorus 17.57.1-5.

1080 a rrian 3.12.2.

08! It is interesting to note that Arrian describes these as shock troops, not as being primarily defensive as
is usually assumed of the so called heavy infantry; cf. English, 2009, 1-27 for an argument that the
Macedonian pezhetairoi were in fact light infantry.


Page 151, Instance 3, Class: Text
numerically superior enemy. Arrian himself, later, even presents the march as being by
day,'° The problems surrounding the night march come within the context of the
location of the Macedonian base camp. Arrian mentions two camps, the fortified base
camp and the temporary camp close to the battlefield.'°”° Curtius confuses the situation,
however, by noting three camps: the four-day rest camp, the temporary camp below the
hill occupied by Mazaeus’”” and the fortified camp on the hill that was soon vacated by
Mazaeus.'°”? The commonality in the sources is that the final camp was on the hill
overlooking Gaugamela; but in Arrian it was temporary, in Curtius, fortified.'°” The final
difficulty comes during the battle itself: for Curtius the camp is the planned target of a
large force commanded by Mazaeus; for Arrian'®” it is ransacked as the result of an
unforeseen breakthrough of Alexander’s lines: the reality is unknowable.


Page 152, Instance 1, Class: Text
82 Arrian 3.11.9 names Simmias at this point in the line (brother of Amyntas), but he is the only source to
o so. Curtius 4.13.28 and Diodorus 17.57.3 name Philippus son of Balacrus; the error is likely to be
srian’s. Bosworth, 1976, 125 assumes the error originates with Aristobulus and Arrian simply passed the
ror along. Who actually commanded Amyntas’ taxis in his absence is difficult to say. Berve, 2.27.354
10.704); 2.27.384 (778) names Simmias without any justification or discussion, but Philippus was the
ommander according to the vulgate as noted above; it seems that only Ptolemy names Simmias. Both,
owever, are obscure to say the least: Philippus is never mentioned again and Simmias only reappears
uring the plot of Philotas. In reality we simply do not know the answer, and for our purposes here it makes
ttle difference. Cf. Bosworth, 1980, 301.

83 Davina JOR6. 113.


Page 152, Instance 2, Class: Text
one half of the Agrianians, commanded by Attalus
and in touch with the Royal Squadron on the right
wing, were, together with the Macedonian archers
under Brison, thrown forward at an oblique angle,


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_153instance1.jpg]

Page 153, Instance 2, Class: Text
in case it should suddenly prove necessary to
extend or close up the front line of infantry.


Page 153, Instance 3, Class: Text
Devine, 1986, 96; Marsden, 1964, 48f Bosworth, 1980, 302.

»! Marsden, 1964, 48.

2 Bosworth, 1980, 302; Devine, 1086, 96.

3 Tarn, 1948, 1.48, 2.184.

4 Judeich, 1922, 7.

5 For further objections to Tarn and Judeich see Griffith, 1947, 77.

% Curtius 4.3.31-2.

7 See also Burn, 1952, 85/7; Fuller, 1958, 167-9.

98 In fact it is probably fair to argue that the right-hand side flank guard was rather


Page 154, Instance 1, Class: Text
the right were stationed the Companion C
ea a ver cath the Companion ac avalry commanded by Philotas; Alexander was


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_154instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_155instance1.jpg]

Page 155, Instance 2, Class: Text
"0 Curtius 4.12.12; Arrian 11.3; Bosworth, 1980, 297.

"ll Bosworth, 1980, 297. His errors regarding the Macedonian heavy infantry, for example, at 4.13.28-9.
"2 Arrian 3.15.5.

"13 Diodorus 17.64.3; Curtius 5.1.10.

'I4 Devine, 1986, 100; Arrian 3.11.3 puts the figure at only 1,000 Bactrians.

NS Arrian 3.11.3; of. 3.11.6.

''6 Curtius 4.12.6.

"7 Atkinson, 1980, 402.

"8 Devine, 1986, 101. Curtius 4.12.6. provides the numbers here, although the strength of the Arachosian
avalry has to be inferred from the text; cf. Atkinson, 1980, 403; Bosworth, 1980, 297-198.

19 Curtius 4.12.6. Bosworth, 1980, 298.


Page 156, Instance 1, Class: Text
this mixed unit were the Susian and Cadusian''”° cavalry, each 2,000 strong. Completing
the Persian left were, in front of the rest of the wing, 2,000 Scythians and 1,000 Bactrian
cavalry along with 100 scythed chariots.'!?! Chariots were something of a return to a
more ancient form of warfare; but Darius believed that they would give him a tactical
advantage by breaking up the Macedonian lines. Darius should be commended, despite
his failure, for attempting an innovative tactic, '!”? rather than simply relying on weight of
ee. ey a? a


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_157instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_158instance1.jpg]

Page 158, Instance 2, Class: Text
are pertecty plausible given the time Darius had to prepare and the resources at his
disposal.''*? We can also say with some certainty that the elephants were not present at
Gaugamela; they are mentioned in the Persian order of battle, but do not appear to have
actually taken any part in the battle itself. Alexander, therefore, did not encounter
elephants in battle until the Hydaspes. Apart from the chariots, most of our sources
provide wildly exaggerated estimates, as was typical in the ancient world. The most
plausible figures, however, are those provided by Curtius: 200,000 infantry and 45,000
cavalry are not unreasonable numbers; given that this was to be Darius’ last stand and
that he had had around two years to prepare, summoning contingents from what remained
of his empire. Devine,''" in attempting a slight defence of Arrian, proposes the
believable hypothesis that Arrian’s 40,000 cavalry may have been a paper strength,
although it was never actually achieved. This in itself is plausible enough, but it is a
number unfortunately juxtaposed against the 1,000,000 infantry, which has to be pure


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_159instance1.jpg]

Page 160, Instance 1, Class: Text
rejected the plan.'!*” After all the deliberations Alexander appears to have decided upon
the same basic strategy that he had used at the Granicus and Issus: to draw the Persians
out onto ground of his choosing and then, at the optimal moment, launch his counter-
attack. This would involve, as before, essentially the sacrifice of some troops in order to
achieve the desired result, but Alexander had no qualms about that.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_160instance2.jpg]

Page 160, Instance 3, Class: Text
We can infer from this speech that Alexander had a general tactic; but by
reminding the commanders, and thus the men, to watch out for changes in orders that
should be executed rapidly; it seems that Alexander expected to make changes during the
hattla


Page 161, Instance 1, Class: Text
''© Arrian’s use of the term “hos epi” at 3.13.1, is problematic, especially in a tactical context. Arrian also
uses the term at the Hydaspes (5.16.3), which Tarn (1948, 2.194-197) translates as a feint, a movement “as
if towards the enemy”. Given that Arrian uses the term so frequently during his narrative (Hamilton, 1952,
27, n.12, claims about 90 examples: Devine, 1986, 104, n104, states 130 in the Anabasis), this
interpretation would mean we would have to alter entirely our interpretations of Alexander’s battles that
use Arrian as a source; every tactical movement he made would become a feint. It is more reasonable to
accept Hamilton, 1956, 26-31, in arguing that Arrian uses “hos epi” and “epi” interchangeably and both can
be translated as towards or against. I think it is reasonable to assume that this was an actual movement of
troops towards Alexander’s right, and not a feint in that direction.

163 Arrian 3.13.1; of. Marsden, 1964, 52.

et Arrian 3.14.6.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_161instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_162instance1.jpg]

Page 163, Instance 1, Class: Text
At some point which remains unclear, some of Mazaeus’ cavalry on the Persiar
ight broke through the Macedonian lines: Arrian'!®' describes breaking through the
entre, whilst Curtius has 1,000 cavalry being ordered to ride around Alexander’s
xtreme left to “plunder the enemy’s baggage”.''®? Curtius here has a request sent tc
\lexander with news of this action and a request for orders: this is not a request fo:
ssistance as is assumed by Devine, but an alteration to the plan to which Parmenio fel
imself unable to adjust. Alexander’s response was to ignore the raid, as if they were tc
win this battle we shall not only recover our own baggage but also capture the


Page 163, Instance 2, Class: Text
Arrian’s text is also problematic: a breakthrough in the centre (and at the very end
of the battle) presents a number of difficulties; any breakthrough that reached the baggage
train would have to pass through the second, reserve phalanx; this does not seem to have
occurred in Arrian. Indeed, the reserve phalanx only learned about the breakthrough
when the baggage train was being looted. Alexander’s baggage was also some distance to
the rear, some 6km.''** A second problem is that Arrian has the Indians and Persian
cavalry fleeing in defeat, but the camp was no longer in a direct line behind the
Macedonians because of Alexander’s rightward movement before the battle." These
fleeing cavalry, then, are supposed to have regained their composure, despite the battle
being over and Darius already in flight, in order to attack the guarded Macedonian camp.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_163instance3.jpg]

Page 163, Instance 4, Class: Text
cavalry held their own against superior numbers. Arrian tells us of repeated cavalry
charges by Bessus, indicating that the battle on the Macedonian right was lengthy and
perhaps that the Persian defeat was more to do with demoralisation after Darius fled than
a military defeat. Devine''”’ also notes the possibility of treason by Bessus; it seems
unlikely in the heat of battle that an enemy commander could negotiate a treaty and if it
had been organised before the battle, then why fight at all, why not simply change sides?
The treason story originates in Curtius,''”® and it is no doubt true to say Bessus was
ambitious, as Curtius does, but it is a long way from ambition to outright treason.

The battle on the right culminated in a final charge by the Macedonians. Tarn
made the error of assuming that these Macedonians were the Companion Cavalry,''”
believing them to be the only ethnically Macedonian units in that area at the time. He also
erroneously believed that the Persians broke through the flank guards in order to reach
the Companions. Arrian here is not using Macedonian in the ethnically specific sense, but
as a generalisation for troops within the Macedonian order of battle.''®° The troops that
ultimately held and then repulsed Bessus were the mercenaries. prodromoi and Paeonians


Page 164, Instance 1, Class: Text
Ve can only conclude that Arrian is wrong in the timing of the breakthrough: it was not
t the end of the battle but earlier, as in Curtius, and also in the direction of the Indian and
ersian cavalry. The camp was 6km away and thus not an easy or tempting target for any
avalry units that did manage to break through; we can therefore only conclude direct
rders for the camp to be assaulted, again as in Curtius: the intention no doubt being an
tamnt tr rannvar Dyarine? familer


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_164instance2.jpg]

Page 165, Instance 1, Class: Text
The use of scythed chariots by Darius against the Companion Cavalry could have
2en disastrous for Alexander, but the ease with which they were dealt with demonstrate:
lexander’s close attention to detail: Alexander must have taken note the previous day o
ie location of the chariots, noting fully half of the total number stationed on the Persiat
ft, and immediately formulating a plan as to how to counter their use. Given that, ever
the centre where they had some limited and evidently short-term impact," this action
so clearly demonstrates that the chariot’s day as a key unit on the battlefield wa:


Page 165, Instance 2, Class: Text
EI I OE ON OILED NE ENON END NANA NEE FAO NO

The commonly held view, and the more likely explanation, is that the infantry
nply moved out of the way of the chariots; to have moved far enough to stab the horses
each of their sides with a sarissa some 5.5m long would have meant creating a series of
rhaps 15m gaps in the line: this seems unlikely in the heat of battle. It is much more
ausible to assume a smaller gap without the heavy infantry being able to use their
rissa. Either way, the Macedonians evidently had more difficulty with the chariots than


Page 165, Instance 3, Class: Text
After causing havoc in Alexander’s front lines, the
chariots had now charged the phalanx, and the
Macedonians received the charge with a firm resolve,
permitting them to penetrate to the middle of the column.
Their formation resembled a rampart; after creating an
unbroken line of spears, they stabbed the flanks of horses
from both sides as they charged recklessly ahead.


Page 166, Instance 1, Class: Text
Curtius'” tells us that the Persian line on the left was thinner than the rest of the
ersian front, because of the detachment of Bessus’ cavalry. They were perhaps still in
he process of reorganising themselves to attempt to maintain some kind of link with
3essus as Alexander struck. Alexander’s charge evidently left him deep within Persian
anks, and he was surrounded by the enemy. Alexander’s charge had separated him from
is supporting infantry units, and he was only saved when the Agrianians caught up to his
osition.'" The situation in Alexander’s sector was now extremely confused; the
ompanion Cavalry were under attack on all sides, having charged the Persian left centre.
hose Persians that were behind Alexander were now also being attacked from behind by


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_166instance2.jpg]

Page 167, Instance 1, Class: Text
the Agrianians and other light infantry units; meanwhile Bessus’ cavalry were still full:
engaged, except for those that had broken loose to attack the Macedonian baggage train.


Page 168, Instance 1, Class: Text
The Macedonians wandered around like people in the
dark, converging only when they recognised a voice
or heard a signal. But they could hear the sound of
reins time and time again lashing the chariot horses,
the only trace they had of the fleeing king.


Page 168, Instance 2, Class: Text
In this sector, Bessus was evidently also in flight, as described by Arrian: “The
outflanking party on the Macedonian right was also broken up by the powerful assault of
Aretes’ men”.'2? Given the strength of Bessus’ forces, it seems unlikely that the
Macedonian flank guards would have routed them so easily; it is more likely that they
would only have fled when they saw Darius doing the same. Griffith’s'?’? view that
Bessus must have been assaulted by a more formidable force than just the flank guards
has merit, but is unsupported by the evidence. The second force could only have been the
Companion Cavalry wheeling right as they passed the gap in the Persian line, rather than
left to attack Darius. It is inconceivable that Alexander, when faced with the choice of
attacking the flanking troops or attacking the Great King, would have steered away from
Darius. We can further argue that Alexander’s whole tactic was to attack the Persian
centre from two directions simultaneously, and with the heavy infantry either engaged, or
about to engage the Persian centre, he could not afford a delay in mopping up the Persian
left, if the battle was to be won. There is also no hint of his proposed attack against
Bessus in Arrian. It is reasonable to assume, therefore, that the battle on the Macedonian
right was hard fought and only won when Bessus saw Darius in flight and thus decided
that there was no reason to continue.


Page 168, Instance 3, Class: Text
Ancient battles would often have been fought in such circumstances, with little
isibility or opportunity for communication. The geographical areas in which Alexander
yught, largely in extremely dry regions of Persia, would have meant that this was a
biquitous problem. Many of the areas where Alexander fought campaigns were bone dry
or large parts of the year, and any activity on the ground, such as marching or the
1ovement of horses, would have thrown up considerable amounts of dust into the
tmosphere. This dust would have had the effect of massively reducing visibility to the
oint where directing a battle for anyone would have been almost impossible. Alexander
ould have had to rely upon his commanders knowing their responsibilities under the
tical plan and executing their orders precisely. Communication would have been
\cilitated by cavalry messengers carrying messages from one sector of the battlefield to


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_169instance1.jpg]

Page 170, Instance 1, Class: Text
223 Curtius 4.16.3.

224 Curtius 4.16.16-19: Although how he could have come to believe this without any actual evidence in
the form of a message is not explained. The only real possibility is that Alexander knew how outnumbered
Parmenio was and speculated that he could only hold out for a short period, and thus Alexander perhaps
believed that he had a narrow window of opportunity to pursue Darius before Parmenio’s situation became
critical, Diodorus 17.60.7-8.

225 Griffith, 1947, 88; Hamilton, 1980, 89; Bosworth, 1980, 310.

22 Bosworth, 1980, 310 notes that Curtius has Alexander turn back “for the first time” at nightfall, the
Latin does not in fact say this. Curtius 4.16.18-19 actually states “Alexander instantibus suis ne impune
abeuntem hostem intermitteret sequi, hebetia esse tela et manus fatigates tantoque cursu corpora exhausta et
praeceps in noctem diei tempus causatus est, re vera de laevo cornu, quod adhuc in acie stare credebat,
sollicitus, reverti ad ferendam opem suis statuit.” Alexander does turn back, but there is no explicit mention
of “for the first time”.

227 Note that I am assuming an error in Arrian as to the timing of the ending of the first pursuit; Alexander
being forced to turn back to help an imperilled Parmenio fits well with the anti-Parmenio strand that occurs
in Arrian. Presenting Parmenio as less than competent (in failing to initially secure his own area of the
field); the argument becomes even more effective if Alexander was given little chance of catching Darius
‘i.e, having to turn back before nightfall), no blame could be assigned to him for failing if he had to break
off the pursuit so quickly.

228 And presumably after a brief but bloody battle with a band of retreating Persian cavalry: Arian 3.15.2;
rtis 4.16.70.


Page 170, Instance 2, Class: Text
Many have found Diodorus’!””> account of the message not having been deliverec
convincing, especially since Arrian’s version presents a number of significant problems
\rrian’s account clearly implies two pursuits, the second of which lasted until nightfall
here is a hint of two separate pursuit incidents in Curtius; but this is not explicitly states
s Bosworth has argued.'””° All of our sources at least hint at two pursuits of Darius, th
irst aborted in order to provide assistance to Parmenio, the second a more concerte


Page 170, Instance 3, Class: Text
similar story of the message only reaching Alexander when he was some way from the
attlefield; again Alexander halts his pursuit in order to return.'?”> He also tells us that
Alexander had reached the river Lycus before he turned back, after protests from his men
io press the pursuit; Curtius also mentions failing light. Curtius adds that he turned back
yecause he believed that Parmenio was in trouble; this sits well with Diodorus’ !** claim
hat the message was never delivered presumably because Alexander was some distance
away, and with my own interpretation of a message only being delivered once Alexander
was returning to the battlefield.


Page 170, Instance 4, Class: Text
I would argue that the most plausible version of the story is for Alexander to have
mmediately pursued the fleeing Darius, but to have called off the chase as the hour
yecame late.'*”” As he was returning to the battlefield'?”* the messenger from Parmenio
eached him, but by the time he returned the battle was long over, Mazaeus having fled
vith the rest of the Persian army. The following day, a second concerted pursuit of Darius
yegan, no doubt better organised and with a greater number of troops. Thus Parmenio’s
nessage was delivered, but some time after it was sent; in the intervening period
-armenio managed to hold, and ultimately win the battle on the on the left. There were,


Page 171, Instance 1, Class: Text
therefore, two pursuits of the Great King, one on the day of battle that failed to capture
him, the second the following day.'?”°


Page 171, Instance 2, Class: Text
?° Contra Rhodes, 2006, 364, who argues that no message was sent at all from Parmenio to Alexander. He
‘gues that in the confusion of a mélée of 200,000 or more men, along with the dust that that would have
snerated, there was no way that a message could possibly have reached Alexander. I do not disagree with
iis point, in general terms; but it assumes that the message would have been sent during the height of the
ttle, when Alexander was preparing to pursue Darius, or during that pursuit. I have tried to argue that the
essage would only have reached Alexander a little later than this, when he had already given up the
Irsuit and was returning towards the battlefield. Given that only a few cavalry accompanied Alexander on
€ pursuit of Darius, these would not have generated much dust, and Alexander would have been perfectly
sible on his return journey, as most of the fighting (and thus the dust it generated) was over by that time.
°° Arrian 3.15.6; Diodorus 17.61.3; Curtius 4.16.26: Bosworth, 1980, 312, also quoting this same passage
f Curtius, mistakenly claims 330 dead.

! Arrian 3.15.2.

*? Arrian 3.15.6.

33 DaAwarth 108M 219


Page 171, Instance 3, Class: Text
Gaugamela shows Alexander’s tactical brilliance; he encountered a vastly
superior army on a wide open plain that had been specially levelled in order to take
advantage of the Great King’s numerical superiority. Alexander shows himself not to be
the rash gambler so often described, but a cool and level-headed tactician. He assessed


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_172instance1.jpg]

Page 172, Instance 3, Class: Text
the battlefield and studied the enemy positions the day before the battle, and developed :
tactic specific to the situation, albeit with some key hallmarks.


Page 172, Instance 4, Class: Text
Darius’ generalship is often unappreciated: his own strategy was perfectly sound;
e attempted to encircle the Macedonians in order to attack them in several directions at
nce. This was a perfectly reasonable strategy, but needed time to be effective, time that
lexander’s charge at the head of the Companion Cavalry did not allow. His use of
hariots was a reasonable gamble, and could have been devastating, but in reality did
ttle. The great failing on the part of the Persians was not in generalship, but in allowing
gap to develop between the centre and the left; the Persians did not possess enough
uality infantry to maintain a cohesive link. This is a role that would have been played by
1e hypaspists of Alexander, but the Persians possessed only 3,000 quality infantry, the
‘reek mercenaries left over from Issus_


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_174instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_175instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_176instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_177instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_178instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_179instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_180instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_181instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_182instance0.jpg]

Page 183, Instance 1, Class: Text
The North-East Frontier: 328-7

The set-piece battles, as well as the great sieges of Alexander’s career, have been
examined thoroughly; this was intentional as they represent the main narratives that we
have for any study of Alexander’s military career. This chapter, however, is rather less
detailed: this is entirely deliberate. The sources for this chapter of Alexander’s career
give us a reasonable narrative of what Alexander was doing in Bactria and Sogdiana, but
they are frequently lacking in military detail, and there are few major episodes to study.
This chapter, therefore, is intended to pick out those salient points that are particularly
relevant to this study, details that can illustrate Alexander’s tactical and strategic
thinking.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_183instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_184instance1.jpg]

Page 185, Instance 1, Class: Text
start of the next day, Alexander attacked a number of accessible Uxii villages, killing and
looting as he went, before falling upon the defended position in the pass.'*5! Once
Craterus had taken up his position on the heights covering the Uxii’s suspected line of
retreat, Alexander launched a lightning fast frontal assault. The untrained Uxii were so
frightened that they abandoned their positions without a shot being fired. The Uxii
suffered losses, however, as they fled to what they thought was the safety of the
mountains, but was in fact, straight to the waiting Craterus.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_186instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_187instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_188instance1.jpg]

Page 188, Instance 2, Class: Text
further frontal assault only when they were sure that Alexander was behind the Persian:
Arrian claims the remainder of the troops travelled with Alexander through the pass.


Page 189, Instance 1, Class: Text
'275 Curtius 5.8.3; cf. Diodorus 17.73.2 quote 3,300 cavalry, 4,000 Greek mercenaries and 26,000 Persians.
Arrian 3.19.5; notes only 3,000 cavalry and 6,000 infantry: these numbers of Arrian are oddly low given
that Darius had had six months in Media to recruit new troops; conscript infantry would be the easiest to
come by.

1278 Some, especially the remaining Greek mercenaries, would have fought at Issus too.

'77 Bosworth, 1988, 94. The chronology of the Agis revolt is problematic: for the most recent examination
see Badian in Worthington, 1994, ch.13.

278 Curtius 5.8.16% Arian 3.19.1-2.

'79 Bosworth, 1988, 94. Arrian 3.19.5 actually notes a march of “within twelve days”.

289 Arrian 3.19.7. Bosworth, 1988, 94-5, believes that Alexander did not in fact visit Ecbatana at all.

"8! Bosworth 1988, 95/5 for more detail that is beyond the scope of this thesis.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_189instance2.jpg]

Page 189, Instance 3, Class: Text
After an eleven-day forced march, Alexander met a Persian noble, Bisthanes, who
old him that Darius had already left Ecbatana some five days previously.'*”? Alexander
mmediately divided his forces in the usual manner, keeping the elite, fast-moving troops
vith him, and set off in pursuit; this time he was not to be denied. Alexander had only a
light delay in Ecbatana, where he disbanded the Thessalian cavalry, as well as the other
lied contingents. He also detached Parmenio and the remaining troops, along with the
aggage train, from his flying column and left orders that they were to occupy
cbatana.'2®° After ten more days Alexander passed the Caspian gates without incident
nd continued east. Alexander’s chase was relentless, but he ultimately would be robbed
f his prize by a Bessus-led internal coup; there was little Alexander could do, but Darius
vas dead.'?*' Before setting off for the mountains of what would become the north-east


Page 189, Instance 4, Class: Text
Alexander set off from Persepolis in May 330, probably before news reached hin
the victory in Greece of Antipater over the Spartan-led revolt of Agis,'?”” determine
force a conclusion with Darius. Darius had evidently failed to build the kind of arm
expected, so upon hearing news of Alexander’s march from Persepolis, he set out eas
wards the Caspian gates and the eastern satrapies with the hope of further rebuilding hi
og Lim ew thn ctill PDAacenl eeminmnan


Page 190, Instance 1, Class: Text
' The Philotas affair.
1283 A small region between Ecbatana and Bactria.
1284 Roughly modern Afghanistan.
1285 When the term “Bactria” was used by ancient (and indeed modern) authors, it i
, it is almos
he the area covered by both Bactria and Sopiliens: Holt, 1989. 11. ) authors, it is a t always taken to
128 With peaks as high as 25,000 feet
1287 The modern Amu Darya.
7 gute _ ; ae Sager course of the Oxus River in antiquity had been thought to
ave ; , but has b i af 11:
orth, 1980, 373-374. een reopened by Hamilton, 1971, 106-111; and


Page 190, Instance 2, Class: Text
After securing Hyrcania,'™* in a campaign we know little or nothing about,
Alexander marched on Bactria. Ancient Bactria!™* was very far removed,
topographically, from the Greek world.'*** The soaring mountains of the Hindu Kush and
the Pamirs ranges'**° surrounded Bactria on three sides; the west to north-west is
bordered by the deserts of Turkestan through which runs the Oxus River'~’ on its way to
the Aral Sea.'*** This was terrain entirely alien to Alexander: no longer would he be
facing large armies in massive set piece battles. From this time forward, at least until he
reached India, he would be facing an entirely new form of warfare: that of guerrilla
action. Alexander would now face small-scale ambushes and rapid strikes against his
forces; he faced enemies who knew they could not defeat him in battle, and so he devised
an altemative means of fighting using the very land of Bactria to its fullest advantage.


Page 190, Instance 3, Class: Text
difficulties of his own.'””
Figure 34: The Dasht-e-Kavir Desert, where Darius died.
Bactria

After securing Hyrcania,'** in a campaign we know little or nothing about,
Alexander marched on Bactria. Ancient Bactria!™* was very far removed,
topographically, from the Greek world.'”*° The soaring mountains of the Hindu Kush and
the Pamirs ranges’ surrounded Bactria on three sides: the west to north-west is
bordered by the deserts of Turkestan through which runs the Oxus River'™”’ on its way to
the Aral Sea.'“* This was terrain entirely alien to Alexander: no longer would he be
facing large armies in massive set piece battles. From this time forward, at least until he
reached India, he would be facing an entirely new form of warfare: that of guerrilla
action. Alexander would now face small-scale ambushes and rapid strikes against his
farcec: he faced enemies who knew thev could not defeat him in hattle and so he devised


Page 191, Instance 1, Class: Text
As Alexander set off from Zadracarta, on his march towards Bactria, news arrived
of a revolt in Areia.'**” Satibarzanes, the native whom Alexander had appointed satrap of
the region, had risen up and murdered the Macedonian military commander, Anaxippus,
and the forty mounted javelin men that had been left in the capital, Artacoana.'’””
Satibarzanes evidently planned to link up with Bessus; some Bactrians were already with
him, in order to form a more coherent resistance to the Macedonian conquerors. As can
be expected, Alexander’s response was rapid and decisive.

As was usually the case, Alexander divided the army in smaller,'””! more mobile
units capable of a more rapid response. He took with him the usual suspects'*”* and


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_191instance2.jpg]

Page 192, Instance 1, Class: Text
Bactria and Sogdiana

Alexander’s campaign in Bactria is far more complex than is generally supposed;
it is frequently stated that this stage of the campaign represents a watershed in the style of
combat that Alexander would face, and the army was reorganised to adapt to that change.
There were no major cities to capture, and the population lived in small isolated villages,
or were nomadic.'*”° The military capacity of the region was enormous; Carts notes a
potential of 30,000 cavalry, although no significant infantry were available.

In the same way as he had with Darius, Alexander needed to settle matters with
Bessus. In late March 329 he crossed the Parapamisadae region, centred on the Kabul
Valley forming the crossroads between Bactria, India and Arachosia. ~~ Supplies were
short and snow still blocked the mountain passes; Alexander was forced to wait until
* Arrian 3.25.6; Bosworth, 1980, 357; rightly suggests a march rate of 60 km per day is suspiciously high
given that two taxeis of heavy infantry were present. Cf. Engels, 1978, 154/f. for details on why large
armies always have a slower rate of march then smaller ones.

* Arrian 3.25.6; He also calls the country Drangiana.

'°5 Curtius 6.6.25.

© Curtius 6.6.25-32; Diodorus 17.78.3.

* After the Philotas affair.

'°°8 Arrian 3.28.2; Diodorus |7.78.2-4. oo
"°° Curtius 7.3.2; it is unusual for Alexander to include so few Macedonians, perhaps none (the ethnicity of
the 600 cavalry is unknown), in this kind of mission.

°° Ashley, 1998, 289.

| Curtius 7.4.30. The parallels to pre-Philip Macedonia are obvious.

°? Bosworth, 1988, 105,


Page 192, Instance 2, Class: Text
reached Artacoana, a march of some 120km, in only two days.'”’’ The remaining troops
were left under the command of Craterus. At this point the sources diverge: Arrian has
Satibarzanes taken so completely by surprise that he fled almost immediately, with many
of his troops deserting; he also has Alexander completing the recapture of Artacoana
himself, and Craterus rejoining the army later on the road to Zarangia.'””* The vulgate
tradition has Alexander first laying siege to Artacoana, and then pursuing Satibarzanes
once he fled: with Craterus being left to complete the capture of the city,'””” an honour
that he actually leaves for Alexander upon his return from the chase, and after a siege of
some thirty days.'*”° Neither source provides us with enough data to determine which is
the more accurate, but the core is much the same: a revolt that was quickly suppressed, a
division of forces, a lightning march and the flight of Satibarzanes.

Satibarzanes evidently attempted a second revolt'’’’ in Areia: he entered the
province with 2,000 cavalry given to him by Bessus and persuaded the natives to rise up
once more.'*’* Alexander evidently did not feel this revolt significant; Craterus was
dispatched with 600 cavalry and 6,000 Greek infantry to suppress it.'””” Satibarzanes
became cornered and fought fiercely, but he was killed in action and his men fled. His
death ended the revolt in Areia; there was no longer a figurehead around which to gather.
There were also evidently few men willing to revolt, as none actually seemed to join
Satibarzanes; The revolt was, therefore, perhaps not as serious some later revolts would
prove to be.

Bactria and Sogdiana


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_193instance1.jpg]

Page 193, Instance 2, Class: Text
spring. He provisioned the army from the villages of Parapamisadae!*°? and founded a
new Alexandria near Begram™? to guard the mountain passes of Shibar and Khawak,
and protect against incursions from Bactria once the army had moved on.


Page 194, Instance 1, Class: Text
This goodwill would very soon evaporate and Alexander would be forced to fight a long
and bloody campaign to suppress the region, exactly what his diplomatic skills in
capturing Bessus had been designed to avoid, and we must ask why.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_194instance2.jpg]

Page 194, Instance 3, Class: Text
314 A rrian 3.30.6; Curtius 7.6.10.

315 Curtius 7.6.1-9 surely overestimates the native force at 20,000; Arrian 3.30.10 likewise at 30,000.
316 Curtius 7.6.3-9; Arrian 3.30.11.

317 Curtius 7.6.14-15; Arrian 4.2.1: only small numbers of Bactrians were drawn into the war. Bosworth,
1981, 17, notes that Bactria also rose up against Alexander; contra, Holt, 1989, 52/f.

318 Holt, 1989, 54.

319 Arrian 4.1.4-5. Hammond, 1980b, 190; Holt, 1989, 54.

3° Arrian 4.1.5; states that the revolt was “already in progress” at the time of the summons.

321 Arrian 4.1.3-4, 4.4.1; Curtius 7.6.13, 7.6.25-27; Holt, 1986, 315-323.

322 Holt, 1989, 54.

323 Arrian 4.4.1,

1324 Aj rian 4.3.2-4: Curtius 7.6.16-23.


Page 195, Instance 1, Class: Text
The Sogdian revolt, I believe,'** was a direct result of the foundation o
lexandria-Eschate; the reaction of the natives, local nobility such as Spitamenes, and th:
>ythians who had recently joined the fight, can only be explained by what the cit
presented to the region. This new city was the first to have been built by Alexander it
actria or Sogdiana.!>*6 Previously to this only a few old and disabled Greeks o
lacedonians were settled in the region, and it appeared to the locals that the new kin;
ould soon leave the area to return to how things had been under the Great Kings. The
eation of a large fortress-like foundation'*”’ with a seemingly entirely military objectiv
as a clear statement to the local population that their existing way of life was unde


Page 195, Instance 2, Class: Text
Alexander’s clear intent was to militarise the Jaxartes region, and prevent the
scythians from crossing that river.'**? Scythians had a long history of interaction, both
nilitary cooperation and trade, with the peoples of the Persian Empire, and it was
Alexander’s stated intention to break these bonds. Ultimately Alexander wished tc
event a military alliance between Sogdians, Bactrians and Scythians against his rule at
ome point in the future; instead he instantly created just that. Alexander responded to the
evolt with systematic destruction, but this only succeeded in exacerbating the Problem as
he natives could see more plainly that their way of life was being destroyed."


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_195instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_196instance1.jpg]

Page 196, Instance 2, Class: Text
The lack of security in the whole of the Bactria/Sogdiana region is clearl1
lemonstrated by an ambush of Spitamenes. He drove a herd of cattle into a plain anc
vaited in a wooded area to ambush the Greeks that he expected to pass by. The plo:
vorked brilliantly and the Greeks, led by Attines, were slaughtered to a man; Spitamene:
vithdrew after a successful counter-attack by a small leaderless group of Companior
‘avalry'?*> and Greek mercenaries, who were in turn defeated by a detachment o


Page 196, Instance 3, Class: Text
““"* They were evidently the sick and infirm that Alexander had left behind.

1336 The range of mountains that separated east and west Sogdiana.

'337 Bosworth, 1981, 36.

1338 Arrian 4.18.4-19, does not actually name it as such, but calls it “the rock in Sogdiana”; he also dated
this episode it in the spring of 327 (Arrian places far more in the year 327 and leaves almost nothing to
occur in 328; the vulgate tradition is more reasonable and does not leave such lacunae. Cf. Bosworth, 1981,
17-39); it is more commonly known as the Sogdian Rock, from Arrian 4.18.2. The chronology that I find
most convincing and coherent is that of the vulgate tradition (Curtius 7.11.19, Metz Epitome \5ff). Arrian’s
account is difficult and fragmented; he places far too much in the year of 327 and almost nothing in 328.
One of the principal aberrations is the dating of the two great sieges, this one first, which he dates to the
spring of 327 (Arrian 4.18.4/). This chronology is argued for in great detail by Bosworth, 1981, 36; contra
Tarn, 1948, 1.72-6. For dating the siege see: Bosworth, 1981, 36; Bosworth, 1988, 113; contra Ashley,
1998, 301, who places the siege in the spring of 327, following Arrian.

1339 Curtius 7.11.1.

1340 Ashley, 1998, 301.

14 Curtius 7.11.28; Arrian 4.19.4-5,

1342 Arrian 4.19.1-2; Curtius 7.11.19.

'343 Bosworth, 1995, 129, supports Arrian’s view, stating that Curtius 7.11.14-15 is highly rhetorical at this
point: this is true, but a climb to a height of nearly 6,000m in a single night strains credulity. Even if


Page 197, Instance 1, Class: Text
when dawn broke, the defenders saw above them what they could only assume were
flying men, and their morale disappeared. The Rock surrendered to Alexander without
further loss of life.'*** In the capture of this mountain-top fortress, Alexander once again
showed himself capable of analysing a seemingly impossible situation and formulating a
winning strategy. We also see an example of Alexander taking a calculated risk, that the
defenders would surrender, rather than attack the mountaineers whom they outnumbered


Page 197, Instance 2, Class: Text
In late summer, Alexander drew together all of the various flying columns that he
had deployed throughout Sogdiania, converging on Maracanda. Alexander accepted the
surrender, or at least the offers of allegiance, from the Saca tribes. 3° It appears that they
were suitably impressed with Alexander’s campaign of 328 to think it prudent to come to
terms.'**° Even whilst in the midst of the most bloody campaign of his career, Alexander
was evidently planning ahead; he declined an invitation from the Chorasmian king to
campaign towards the Black Sea,'**” stating that his sights were firmly on India as his


Page 197, Instance 3, Class: Text
An excellent illustration of a possible deficiency in Alexander’s army is given by
the slaughter of Pharnuches’ men at the hands of Spitamenes and his 600 Scythian
mounted archers. They evidently engaged the Greek infantry, but not by a direct frontal
assault, but by riding around them at a distance firing arrows at the Greeks. Being only
infantry, the Greeks had no capability to respond, and were slaughtered. Usually this
would not have been a usable tactic if the Greek force had possessed cavalry, and this is
an excellent illustration of the need for mounted troops to protect infantry in ancient
warfare. This defeat was so potentially devastating for morale that the few survivors that
made it back to the main army were told. under penalty of death. to remain silent on the


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_197instance4.jpg]

Page 198, Instance 1, Class: Text
352 Bosworth, 1981, 36.

353 Arrian 4.18.1; Curtius 8.2.19; reads Nauta; Metz Epitome 19; reads Nautace. For location see Arrian
3.28.9.

354 A rrian 4.21.2, calls the rebel leader Chorienes, sometimes taken to be a corruption of Sisimithres (Holt,
1989, 66), but the two do seem to be clearly different personages. For a full discussion, Bosworth, 1995,
135. Curtius 8.2.19-33; Strabo 517; Arrian 4.21.1-9 (sets the siege later in 327 and names Chorienes as
ruler, a man who is named elsewhere by the vulgate tradition (Metz Epitome 29; Curtius 8.4.21)). Cf.
Bosworth, 1981, 30-32.

355 Arrian 4.21.2.

356 Arrian 4.21.4-5; Curtius 8.2.23-4; of. Bosworth, 1988, 117; Bosworth, 1995, 136-7.

357 A rrian 4.29.7. For Aornus see below pp. 201-3.

358 Arrian 4.30.1; Bosworth, 1995, 136f.

359 T ane Fox, 1973, 316; Hammond, 1980b, 199.

136 Bosworth, 1995, 137.

361 A rrian 4.21.5; Curtius 8.2.24.

362 Specifically Tyre, where Alexander only adopted defensive measures like this after suffering losses to
ship-borne missile weapons. For hides as protection see Arrian 4.21.6.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_198instance2.jpg]

Page 198, Instance 3, Class: Text
The construction of the causeway is a matter of considerable difficulty. Some
nodern historians'*? have assumed Arrian refers to pegs being driven into the side of the
‘avine so as to create a framework for a bridge, the river flowing underneath. Bosworth
joubts that such a construction could have been wide enough to span the ravine at all.!36°
t does seem more likely that there were in fact stakes driven into the bed of the river
ipon which the bridge would have been constructed. On the top of the bridge would have
een a wicker flooring that would support earth and wood that would form the walkway
cross the ravine.'°°! Alexander also showed himself capable of learning difficult lessons
rom previous sieges: hides were placed at the leading edge of the construction to protect
he builders and engineers from projectile weapons fired by the defenders.'*? The
Jefenders did not have the same will to resist as did the Tyrians, and at this display of


Page 199, Instance 1, Class: Text
136 But not the end of the fighting. This would drag on into 327; see below.

1364 See above p.195 n.1338.

1365 Arrian 7.6.1; Plutarch Alex. 71.1; Diodorus 17.108.1-3; Curtius 7.5.1.

136 Diodorus 17.17.4.

1367 Curtius 7.4.1.

1368 Now reinstated as commander of the Rock of Ariamazes or the Sogdian Rock depending on the
nomenclature of the source.

1369 Success was quick and absolute: Arrian 4.22. 1-2; Curtius 7.5.2; Metz Epitome 23.


Page 199, Instance 2, Class: Text
iegecraft they surrendered before a final assault could be begun against the defences
oper. The Rock’s vast stores of provisions were enough to winter the Macedonian
rmy.

This represented the end of the rebellion in Bactria and Sogdiana;!3% most of the
ocal nobility had come to terms with Alexander, willingly or otherwise, and the native
opulation had been terrorised into subjugation. Amyntas was left as satrap of the region
vith a massive force of 10,000 infantry and 3,500 cavalry, an army to rival that left in
Viacedonian with Antipater.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_199instance3.jpg]

Page 200, Instance 1, Class: Text
Chapter 8
India: 327-5

By the spring of 327 Alexander had quashed the rebellion in Sogdiana and Bactria
and was ready to march on India. It is evident that Alexander had been contemplating this
expedition for some time, at least since summer the previous year, and almost certainly
long before that.'°’? The army that marched with Alexander was around 50,000 strong,
hardly more than had fought at Gaugamela. The size of the Macedonian contingent was
also reduced; there had been no documented reinforcements from Macedonia for almost
four years. There had been a large influx from Greece, but they were left behind to ensure
that there were no further difficulties in Sogdiana and Bactria.'’’' The organisation of the
army had also changed to make it more mobile and able to respond to changing
circumstances: the pezhetairoi had all but abandoned the sarissa; its use is not recorded
again in the sources. The prodromoi had been merged with the Companion Cavalry,
probably a sign of seriously reduced numbers; Orientals also started to be introduced into
the Companions’ ranks. A new officer class had also emerged in Sogdiana, partly by
design’ ” and partly enforced due to the removal of men like Parmenio, Philotas and
Cleitus. The new officer cadre consisted of Alexander’s childhood friends, men he
believed he could trust intimately: the likes of Hephaestion, Ptolemy and Perdiccas.'*”*


Page 200, Instance 2, Class: Text
~ Arrian 4.15.6.
'571'T ane Fox, 1973, 334.
1372
*’ Alexander had probably wanted to get rid of Parmenio’s family i
. _ aa s family influence almost since the day he
became king (Green, 1991, 111f/); this view ultimately comes from Badian, 1963. _
Lane Fox, 1973, 334.


Page 200, Instance 3, Class: Text
leitus. The new officer cadre consisted of Alexander’s childhood friends, men he
yelieved he could trust intimately: the likes of Hephaestion, Ptolemy and Perdiccas.
OR Re ve ef .
eee So i cX re , ii

PC oO a oO ee a a ae on eh z
ee rt ess 2 ona
ee aes oer Seat Tae (og 4% —_
rl, ae ae * = Ret Se oF 2 7 i
ge Loe vy se / “oy Pa

0 PRR RS @ wee sy a. ;
Pe oe Oe fe Sore cs ‘ ee Pe rd ee P
ee wh oe o. oe gee ae Kay é | . A
ela Oh eet OS ae ih eee a ee
“ue (NN ge  Nyee?” Nawal Pe fe eis -pis
Pa. .r—<“‘_O_ oe OS ee iif pO ee £
— rr a OOO eee ee wy SAGES.
eo ee ee LS —  — = ot sain ‘Ti. acne 5 | Sania
SOS ee cs ee ee . ee Sosy ek ee ie ae cc) ae P| in eae &
a ge eR, ‘Ory Sea va . 1) Mp AME 1
Ae i ft y aes a,
ee SS fe @Orobatis |
tag f ee .. oe cc = Taxi ° nee
{ed ter Maacem J. Lenderina rts Fa crea tated ae
i ca aR aici
igure 36: Map of Alexander’s march from Bactria to Taxila.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_202instance1.jpg]

Page 202, Instance 2, Class: Text
1374 Heckel, 2008, | 12, argues that it is wrong to speak of a Macedonian conquest of India, believing that
many were brought on boar ough diplomacy, “restoring the authority of the empi
satrapies and establishing a buffer zone”. ° ” mpire over the eastern
Diodorus 17.86.4; Curtius 8.12.5, for representations from the ruler of Taxil
Alexander while he was still in Sogdiana. Na who approached
Arrian 4.30.4, Sisicottus had initially aided Bessus but had gone over to Alexander’s side i i
wm Arian te to8B, 113. g xander’s side in Sogdiana.
(37 . . .
Stein, 1926, for a description of the topography of the region.
1379 Herodotus 4.44. ey .
1380 tani
Illustrated by the lack of Indian involvement at the Battle of Gaugamela; cf. Arti
138! Ashley, 1998, 306. gamelak of: Arrian 3-83.
1382 Cophen River valley = Kabul River Valley. Bosworth, 1988, 119.
1383 Bosworth, 1995, 149, notes that th i ivisi i
oes oe ; 5. mn $ ba e actual location of the division of forces is not known.
e three taxeis were those of Gorgias, Cleitus the White and Mel > Ari
- eked 2008, 116. eager; Arrian 4.22.7,
1386 <i “wth Ineo 141


Page 202, Instance 3, Class: Text
also picked up a number of Indian refugees like Sisicottus,'>”° such men had every reason
to encourage Alexander to invade, although no encouragement was needed.!377
Alexander’s main justification would not have been manipulation by Indian
rebels, or representations from anyone; it is most likely that Alexander wished to
complete the conquest of the Achaemenid Empire. It is a much debated question how
much control the Persians actually exercised over India: Gandhara'?”® and the lands of the
Indus had been nominally under Persian control since the reign of Darius I. It was
Herodotus'*” that tells us that Darius I extended the Persian Empire as far as the Indus,
but the Persian presence by 327 was minimal at best:!8° Persian rule probably extended
no further than the Kabul Valley which bordered the satrapies of Bajaur and Swat to the


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_203instance1.jpg]

Page 203, Instance 2, Class: Text
e occupants of a local town'?®’ who had retired to a mountain stronghold and made
ady to resist Alexander. In the initial assault Alexander was slightly wounded by an
row to the shoulder; this, coupled with Alexander’s desire to make an example of them,
d directly to a massacre of the defenders.'?®* There is little doubt that this act was a
‘liberate policy, '°8? to terrify the native population into submission; Curtius tells us that
en before the city fell, Alexander had instructed the troops to take no prisoners.'°° The
ck had an immediate impact in that the neighbouring city of Andaca surrendered


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_204instance1.jpg]

Page 204, Instance 2, Class: Text
A barricade of beetling crags, at the foot of which
lie caves and chasms hollowed to a great depth
over a long period of time. Where these terminate
a ditch of massive proportions forms a barrier.


Page 204, Instance 3, Class: Text
The city itself was protected by massive walls over seven kilometres long, thei
lower sections made of stone, the upper of unbaked brick bounded by pebbles." These
mud brick walls were further reinforced by a wooden superstructure.”


Page 205, Instance 1, Class: Text
defence. In front of Alexander was what appears to have been a moat of some kind; in
another repetition of earlier sieges, Alexander had his men set about dismantling the
buildings he came across outside of the fortifications, and started filling in the moat.'*°8
The similarities with the siege of Tyre and the mountain sieges in Sogdiana the previous
year are striking. Arrian has siege towers appear from nowhere on the second day of the
siege, whereas Curtius presents a more reasonable picture of a nine-day delay as the moat
was filled in, and the towers were constructed from scratch.'“°? Bosworth believes that
this delay was time enough for Craterus to bring up the siege train, but I doubt that towers
would have been transported over the Hindu Kush Mountains; they were more likely
constructed from scratch as required. The speed of some of Alexander’s movements
dA hase laft tham far hahind if unthine allen


Page 205, Instance 2, Class: Text
As a breach in the walls had been achieved, the siege towers were brought
ward and threw a bridge over the breach. “Over this he led his Guards, the unit which,
; the same tactic, had helped him to the capture of Tyre.”!*!° At this point even Arrian
cognises Alexander using the same tactics, even using the same units to achieve them.
he construction of the tower’s bridge was flawed, coupled with the hypaspists being too
en to get across, and this caused it to collapse with many lost lives. The following day
e same tactic was repeated with another tower, this time with far more success. At the
sath of their commander the Indian mercenaries sued for peace and joined Alexander's
my. The mercenaries planned treachery, however, and the following night Alexander
1d them surrounded and massacred.'*!' After the defection of the Indians, Arrian says
e city was undefended and fell with ease; there is no mention of the thousands of other


Page 205, Instance 3, Class: Text
BLIt EAU Ws fate

After the fall of Massaga, the army was again divided into a number of flying
columns; Coenus was sent to Bazira whilst Attalus, Alcetas and Demetrius advanced
upon Ora.'*!? Attalus was instructed to blockade the town pending Alexander's arrival.
This is a curious instruction and suggests either Attalus’ force was very small and not
capable of carrying the siege, or Alexander wanted the glory of the capture himself. Of
the two blockaded cities, Alexander first made for Ora,'*!? which fell at the first assault.
On hearing this news, the citizens of Bazira abandoned their town in the middle of the
night and made for the defensive position called the Rock of Aornus,'*!*


Page 206, Instance 1, Class: Text
Stein’s description is very similar to Arrian’s who gives a height of 8,000 feet and
cribes the Rock in similar terms, ‘*'® also noting the abundant natural water springs on
: plateau. What Stein does not say is that the summit has a circumference of some forty


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_206instance2.jpg]

Page 207, Instance 1, Class: Text
At Aomus Alexander put the lives of his irreplaceable men at risk on a whim: he
could easily have isolated the Rock at little cost in manpower and moved on, but ego, or
perhaps pride, would not allow this. The local story of Heracles’ failure to capture the


Page 207, Instance 2, Class: Text
to make the impossible a reality, and in remarkably short periods of time. The bridges
that were constructed in Sogdiana and here at Aornus only took a few days; modem
engineers would find it difficult to match these feats, even though they were temporary
structures.


Page 208, Instance 1, Class: Text
Rock was all the incentive he would have needed: much as with the Gordian Knot in Asia
Minor, or the later crossing of the Gedrosian Desert in emulation of Queen Sisigambis,
Alexander simply did not possess the will to resist a seemingly impossible challenge.


Page 208, Instance 2, Class: Text
Royo aNLV¥NAL

In many ways the battle of the Hydaspes is the most interesting of all o!
Alexander’s set-piece battles, although certainly not the most famous. Alexander was
faced with an entirely new weapon of war, the elephant, and as Hamilton notes, his
ability to adapt and overcome this new tactical Problem demonstrates his genius just as
well as the manoeuvres that ensured victory.“ Despite being a fascinating battle, it is
probably the most difficult to reconstruct given the difficulties of the surviving
sources:'“?° these must be examined first before Alexander’s tactics can be establishec
eg gn entry


Page 208, Instance 3, Class: Text
422 Curtius 8.12.1; of. Diodorus 17.82.2, who calls the man Aphrices.

433 Curtius 8.12.2.

424 Ashley, 1995, 317.

1425 Hamilton, 1956, 26.

426 Devine, 1987, 91.

427 For example: Bosworth, 1995, 262ff, Lane Fox, 1973, 3514; Devine, 1987, 94-6; Hamilton, 1956, 26.
There are still tactical flaws, however.

428 Arrian 5.14.3.

1929 Arrian 5.14.5-6; 5.15.1.

‘9 Arrian 5.14.4, and then only once: Bosworth, 1995, 289, believes the un-named source is a much later
writer using the nucleus of Aristobulus in order to produce a “rhetorical fiction”.


Page 208, Instance 4, Class: Text
Almost all modern historians rightly accept Arrian’s account of the Hydaspes as
the fullest, most reliable and most tactically coherent.'*”’ Arrian suffers, as always, from
the usual problem of the inadequacy of information in his sources. Arrian cites only two
of his sources by name: Aristobulus!*? and Ptolemy;'*”? the others are cited
collectively.'“°° It is likely that most of Arrian’s narrative is derived from Ptolemy,
largely because he appears to have an important role in the battle and he was always wont
to emphasise his own achievements, especially if it was at the expense of his later rivals.


Page 209, Instance 1, Class: Text
Jespife being in the boat alongside Alexander as he crossed the Nydaspes Kiver, rlolemy
loes not present a good overall tactically coherent narrative,'**' but he does include the
ders to sub-commanders when they occur.'”? If it is the case that Ptolemy did not have
n overall picture of the tactics for the battle before it occurred, then Alexander could not
ave held a council of war, like that before Gaugamela,'**? as Ptolemy would surely have
een invited by 326. Ptolemy’s coherence would also have suffered from Alexander’s
lecessity to change the tactics of the battle continually, to adjust to weather, terrain and
orus’ elephants. The overall strategy would have been well thought out before, but
lexible in its execution. Holding a council of war at Gaugamela, and not at the Hydaspes
tiver, is probably a sign of Alexander’s increasingly insular nature closer to the end of
is life. It does not display a lack of trust in his sub-commanders, however, as he relied
eavily upon them performing their duties with alacrity in order to gain victory here as


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_209instance2.jpg]

Page 210, Instance 1, Class: Text
is probably not genuine, but that it is certainly based upon good primary sources; it is
consistent with the picture we have in Arrian from Ptolemy and Aristobulus. In general
terms, Plutarch does not often use tactical terminology,'*** nor is he terribly interested in
strategy and tactics; the Hydaspes is no exception. With this drawback, he is of little use


Page 210, Instance 2, Class: Text
Frontinus tells us that Alexander made his night crossing of the Hydaspes
upstream of his main camp opposite Porus.'**’ Arrian tells us that the crossing point was
150 stades from the camp, around 29 km, where there was a headland projecting into the
river from the western bank.'*°? This headland was extensively wooded, as was the island
in the centre of the river; these factors together led Alexander to determine that, given the
amount of cover, this was an ideal crossing point.'“? The descriptions of the headland are
supported by Curtius who noted the vital information that there was a large depression'***
on the west bank, again aiding in the concealment of a significant body of men.'*°5 Where
our sources diverge, however, is in the descriptions of the island that Alexander first


Page 210, Instance 3, Class: Text
Diodorus is similar to the rest of the vulgate tradition in that his narrative is
rhetorical in nature and contains, in this case, little of tactical interest. As in Plutarch,
ferminology, when used, is vague and lacking in full detail; for example, Porus divided
his cavalry by posting a body on each flank and that he divided his elephants equally
along the length of the front line.'““° The motif of the castle wall is repeated throughout
the vulgate tradition.'**” Diodorus’ descriptions of Alexander’s dispositions are even less
tactically useful: “he viewed those of the enemy and arranged his own forces
accordingly”.'““® Diodorus also fails to recognise that there were several phases of the
battle involving some intricate manoeuvres from Alexander.'4? Hammond has argued,
convincingly, for Diodorus’ source for the Hydaspes being Cleitarchus on the grounds of
the sensationalism in the narrative coupled with his lack of interest in topography or
tactical manoeuvres of any kind.'*°° The remainder of the surviving sources are useful
aniyin very mited areas and on minor noints.


Page 211, Instance 1, Class: Text
landed upon. Arrian'**® calls it a large island, probably following Ptolemy;
Aristobulus'**’ and the author of ‘Alexander’s letters’’*”* present it as being a rather
small island. We must note, of course, that there appear to have been two islands in the
Hydaspes River at the crossing point. The first was evidently larger, and closer to the
western shore, than the second; which was in turn obscured from view by the first.'*”° It
may be possible that each source had part of the truth; Ptolemy could simply be
describing the first, larger, island, with Aristobulus paying more attention to the second.
If this is correct, then Arrian simply failed to realise that there were two islands, and there
was not a disagreement among his sources regarding the size of a single island.


Page 211, Instance 2, Class: Text
There is also disagreement as to whether Alexander realised that he was landing
on an island, or mistakenly landed on it during the crossing, thinking he was landing on
the far bank. Plutarch and Curtius'™ lead us to believe that he did know it was an island
and that the landing, therefore, was intentional. Arrian is a little more candid about the
is
1456 A rrian 5.13.2. In fact Arrian says both islands were of significant dimensions (the one that was seen and
that which was unseen, presumably behind the first); Bosworth, 1995, 281.

1457 4 pud Arian 5.143.

1458 4 pud Plutarch Alex. 60.3-4.

1459 Bosworth, 1995, 281-2. That the second island was obscured must have meant it was of smaller
dimension.

4 Plutarch Alex. 603-7; Curtius 8.13.17-27; Devine, 1987, 96, Delbriic, 1975, 224-5 n.2, suggests this
was a deliberate false in order to cover up a serious mistake by Alexander. This is an entirely plausible
hypothesis as I can see no way that Alexander could have failed to realise it was an island, see later.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Image\page_211instance3.jpg]

Page 212, Instance 0, Class: Text
incident, claiming, from Ptolemy, that the landing on the island was indeed a mistake.!*°!
Despite the mistake, there was a ford beyond the island to the mainland which could be
crossed waist deep by the men;!* the total width of the Hydaspes was four stades, most
of which was to the west of the island.“


Page 212, Instance 2, Class: Text
The reconstruction that follows is that of Stein, and places Alexander’s base camp
it Haranpur. It is largely accepted by modern scholars,'*”* often with little comment on
he alternative; but a second theory also exists. Smith has Alexander marching from
Taxila to the Hydaspes via the fastest route, that which followed the Grand Trunk
2oad.'4”3 If this route is accepted, then the base camp for Alexander’s army would have
een the town of Jhelum, the point of crossing located upstream in the vicinity of Fort
Mangala, where the river makes a virtual right hand bend.'** This is superficially
tractive, but there are a number of discrepancies with the sources. The distance from
[Taxila to Jhelum is considerably less than the 120 Roman miles reported by Pliny: !*”5 it is


Page 212, Instance 3, Class: Text
AITIAN J.19.2.

1462 Arrian 5.13.3; Plutarch Alex. 60.7.

1463 A pprox. 768m. Curtius 8.13.8.

1464 Devine, 1987, 96. Pliny NH 6.21.62; equates to approx. 177km. ~~

1465 Strabo 15.1.32.

1466 Stein, 1932, 31-46. Devine, 1987, 96.

467 Stein, 1937, 1-36.

1468 Nullah being the Hindi word for a stream or watercourse. Stein, 1932, 31-46, identifies this with the
fossa praealta of Curtius, but this is difficult to reconcile given that a nullah is a stream and the fossa
praealta was a depression on shore.

'49 Devine, 1987, 96.

147 Stein, 1932, 31-46; 1937, 1-36, cites the dimensions of the island as being 9.6km long (6 miles) and
2.4km at its widest point (1.5 miles), as well as noting that it was still heavily wooded.

1471 Arrian 5.13.2. This detailed description of the river is that presented in the sources. The likelihood that
the river has changed course means it is difficult to identify modern features and accurately site the battle.
The main text does assume Stein’s identification based upon modern topography is correct, if he is wrong
then we are not in a position to suggest an alternative.

1472 Fuller, 1958, 184-5; Lane Fox, 1973, 353-5; Green, 1974, 389-90.

1473 Smith, 1914, 78-85. Bosworth, 1995, 267.

1474 np... nth 1002 9247


Page 212, Instance 4, Class: Text
Devine notes two further details of relevance: according to Pliny, the distance
from Taxila to the Hydaspes River was 120 Roman miles.'** Strabo adds tha!
Alexander’s march to the river was mostly in a southerly direction.'*® Stein used this
detail to locate the battlefield close to Malakwal on the Jhelum River, roughly opposite
the modem city of Haranpur.'“© Stein’s route from Taxila to the Hydaspes is consistent
with Pliny’s distance and Strabo’s general direction of march. Stein went on to suggest
that Alexander camped at Haranpur and from there marched upstream to Jalalpur, a
distance of some 28km.'**’ At Jalalpur there was a well defined headland as described in
the sources, now known as the Mangal Dev, which itself rises over 335m. To the east of
Jalalpur is the Kandar Kas nullah,'*©? which flows into the Halkiwani nullah, the northern
branch of the Jhelum River. This nullah then skirts around the island of Adana,'*®? the
largest in that section of the river,'*”° and one which Stein identified with the large island


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_212instance5.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_213instance1.jpg]

Page 213, Instance 2, Class: Text
1 fact closer to 80.'*”° The terrain to the east of the river at that point is broken and not
uited to the kind of cavalry battle that was fought. The final point is that if Porus was
ncamped close to the modern Fort Mangala, then it is inconceivable that Alexander’s
leet could have been rebuilt on the river without drawing the attention of the Indians.
hese objections all assume, of course, that the river occupies roughly the same course
ow as it did twenty three centuries ago, something that is far from certain, although
tein believed vehemently that it does. !*7

The best we can say is that the accepted location for Alexander’s camp is
robably true, although unproven. We can also say with a high degree of certainty that
lexander marched via the main route from Taxila to the Hydaspes; this was the only
yute that would have allowed him to transport his fleet easily across land. As Bosworth
otes, this route must have followed something like the course of the Grand Trunk Road,


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_214instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_215instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_216instance1.jpg]

Page 216, Instance 2, Class: Text
you are. If, on the other hand, Porus leads all his elephants against
me (Alexander), though leaving behind a part of the army at the
camp, you (Craterus) are to cross promptly. For it is only the
elephants, he said, which are dangerous to disembarking horses,
the rest of the army being no problem.'*”


Page 216, Instance 3, Class: Text
iw et Us bea ee OS NN Pe meee

The flanking force was arranged in two separate divisions. The first, commanded
y Alexander, was to travel the furthest upstream and also be first across the river. This
orce was relatively small by necessity, but certainly contained some of the elite troops of
ne army: the agema of the Companion Cavalry, four hipparchies of Companions, '*”° the
Jactrian, Sogdian and Scythian cavalry, a detachment of Dahae horse archers, the
ypaspists and two taxeis of pezhetairoi/asthetairoi and, of course, the Agrianians,
rchers and javelin men.'*”” Arrian gives the total of 5,000 cavalry and 6,000 infantry, but


Page 216, Instance 4, Class: Text
1495 Arrian 5.18.1.
1496 Those of Hephaestion, Perdiccas, Coenus and Demetrius.
Nes Arrian 5.12.2; 5.13.4; 5.16.3.

On Hammond’s (1998, 418; 1980c, 455ff; 1980b, 191f) inte: i

a’s- 3 7 ; . rpretation of the total strength
Companions at this time of 4,000 (1,800 in 334 Diodorus 17.17.14) divided into eight hipparchies o.
Griffith, 1963, 71, n.13; Devine, 1987, 98. Fuller, 1958, 187, states 4,000 Companions with Alexander, but
this simply cannot be the case as there were eight hipparchies in total, only four with the flanking force
1500 ame - oe The Dahae pe ener are the only unit that Arrian actually gives a strength for
evine, , 98, assumes 5, cavalry and 10,000 infantry; the di is si 0 j

aches i ment. ry i ry; the difference is simply 1,000 in the

Arrian 5.12.1, seems to imply thre i iroi i
further nection of them, ply e taxeis of pezhetairoi ordered to cross independently, but makes no
1502 Fuller, 1958, 187.


Page 217, Instance 1, Class: Text
Along with all of the misdirection and deception strategies being employed by
Alexander to effect an unopposed crossing, he was lucky that the night when he chose to
-onduct the operation was alive with thunder and lightning, as well as torrential rain. The
‘ound trip for Alexander’s flanking force was of the order of 58km.'°° considering the
conditions and distance involved; we must seriously rethink the timeframe for the
rossing. 29km was often a full day’s march by the main army, and that was during the
Jay. This figure should be increased: the full host and baggage train was not present,
nut that is surely more than negated by the weather, the muddy ground and unknown
errain involved. A 29km night march in the conditions described in the sources would be
challenging; a long night march coupled with a difficult river crossing for 9,000 infantry
und 5,300 cavalry stretches credulity, especially when we consider an equally long march
o Porus’ camp and two battles also to be fought. With this in mind I would propose that
Alexander marched to the crossing point and waited in the forests and gullies of the area;
rence their prominence in Arrian’s descriptions, and their importance to Alexander in the
selection of the crossing point. If Alexander set out at dusk, and that would have occurred
»ven earlier than normal, given the thunderstorms and torrential rain described in Arrian.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_217instance2.jpg]

Page 219, Instance 1, Class: Text
diversion to move him away from camp and allow the bulk of the Macedonian army to
cross unopposed. With this possibility in mind Porus first dispatched a rapid cavalry force
to engage Alexander.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_219instance2.jpg]

Page 220, Instance 1, Class: Text
On the initial engagement, there are two major difficulties: the size of the Indian
force, and the location of the skirmish. Arrian tells us that Aristobulus has the battle occur
at the crossing point, or at least very close to it, 1526


Page 220, Instance 2, Class: Text
According to Aristobulus, Porus’ son arrived on the scene
with sixty chariots before Alexander effected his second
crossing — from the island, that is; and in view of the fact

that the crossing was no easy matter even without
opposition, he might have prevented it altogether if his
Indians had left their chariots and attacked on foot
Alexander’s leading troops as they were trying to get on
shore. But in point of fact he merely drove past, and
narmittan Alavander tr rrace unthniit malactatinan


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_220instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_221instance0.jpg]

Page 222, Instance 1, Class: Text
Devine'>** is almost certainly correct to note that the Indian force was never
intended to defeat Alexander, simply to prevent a crossing, or, failing that, to harry the
Macedonians and report back on the size of the attacking force. That they were forced
into battle and quickly routed speaks volumes as to the rapidity of movement of the
Macedonian and allied cavalry unity. Along with the defeat, Porus’ son was killed in the
skirmish; the survivors fled back to Porus with the news that Alexander was present in
person and that he had successfully crossed the Hydaspes in force.


Page 222, Instance 2, Class: Text
Conscious of the mud, Porus moved north until he came upon a relatively dry,
ndy area, on a stretch of level ground,'*”” he halted and made final preparations for the
ming battle. His order of battle is described in detail by Arrian:'*** Porus believed, with
nsiderable justification, that his elephants were his greatest weapon; accordingly these
re drawn up along the length of the front line.'*° Both the numbers of elephants, and
weenacring area mich dehated in the enirrerec


Page 222, Instance 3, Class: Text
The Battle of the Hydaspes River

The survivors of the initial encounter reported to Porus that Alexander was
marching towards him. This news must have dismayed Porus: his strategy had failed,
both to keep Alexander from crossing and, if an engagement was required, to delay it
until Abisares’ reinforcements had arrived. Porus now had no choice but to risk a battle;
he left some elephants and a small contingent of troops at the main camp site to prevent
Craterus from crossing,'* and marched northwards towards the rapidly advancing


Page 222, Instance 4, Class: Text
Arrian claims that Porus commanded 200 elephants, and that they were spaced at
round 30m.!*“° If this were the case it would make the line extend to a length of 6km,!*4!
‘ar too large for the proposed numbers of Indian infantry. Diodorus and Curtius!** give
is more realistic numbers of elephants: 130 and 85 respectively. They do not supply the
pacing between them, but if we accept Arrian’s figure, then their battle lines would be
3.9km and 2.55km respectively, both of which still seem excessive. Polyaenus’ statement
was that the elephants were stationed 15m apart:'** whilst we still can not know how
nany elephants Porus had at his disposal, if we take the median figure of 130 then the
vattle line would extend 1.95km.'5** If we assume that the tactical manuals'*** are correct


Page 223, Instance 1, Class: Text
in that an infantryman needed around 0.9m!*“ in compact formation then that would
mean 2,130'**’ men spread across the front of the Indian line.'*** If the Indian troops
were drawn up 14 men deep then we have a total force of Indian infantry of 29,820. We
also know that the infantry extended beyond the elephants on either wing so the actual
figure would be slightly higher; but it is almost exactly the figure provided by both Arrian
and Curtius of 30,000.'*” It is also the median figure for the size of the Indian infantry
aantinagant fram Tindaric® EN NNN and Dintaerhte 2N NHN 1550


Page 223, Instance 2, Class: Text
Can we assume that the Indian infantry were occupying 0.9m space? '**! The
9m spacing in tight formation is an argument that comes from the size of the hoplite
rields excavated at, amongst other places, Olympia; these shields ranged in size from
8.7cm to 100cm. Given that the individual soldier would have occupied rather less space
an a shield of this diameter, the size of the shield is the critical factor in an estimation of
e space occupied by a trooper.!>>? Less than 0.9m would have meant overlapping
iields and an inability to use the spear properly, wider than this would have meant gaps
pening up between the shield wall, and therefore this could hardly be described as a
ose formation.'** This argument does assume that the Indians were using shields of
ughly the same size as those of a Greek hoplite, but even if the shield was smaller the
en could not physically stand very much closer so a 0.9m frontage seems the most
acanahla


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_223instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_224instance1.jpg]

Page 224, Instance 2, Class: Text
Porus stationed his best elephant in that area; although this was probably more to do with
Porus’ anticipation of Alexander launching his assault from his right. Whilst elephants
would not react in the same way as infantrymen, Porus still elected to place his best
troops on the left perhaps unconsciously, or perhaps to be closest to Alexander who was
positioned on the Macedonian extreme right as was usual.


Page 224, Instance 3, Class: Text
The sources are again at odds regarding the size of the cavalry forces on the
ian wings: Arrian has 4,000, Diodorus 3,000 and Plutarch 2,000,'*°” although he also
ntions that 1,000 cavalry were included in the advance force that was defeated by
xander; 2,000 cavalry on either wing seems plausible. There are two things that we
ng ew riethe nee mtn entere


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_225instance1.jpg]

Page 226, Instance 1, Class: Text
Coenus was sent over to the Indian right with
Demetrius’ hipparchy and his own, his orders
being that when the enemy moved their cavalry
across to their left to counter the massed
formations of the Macedonian mounted
squadrons, he should hang on to their rear.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_226instance2.jpg]

Page 226, Instance 3, Class: Text
er turned to Coenus and said:'°”°
Together with Ptolemy, Perdiccas and Hephaestion I
am going to attack the enemy left wing. When you
see me in the thick of the fight, set our right wing in
motion and attack the enemy while they are in
confusion. Antigenes, Leonnatus, Tauron, you three
will attack the centre and put pressure on their front.


Page 227, Instance 1, Class: Text
The first part of Arrian’s statement has been interpreted in three ways, all o
hich I believe are incorrect. Tarn proposed, and then rejected, the idea that Coenus wa
ent to Alexander’s right on the basis of references to Porus’ left previously.'*”” Coenu
‘as, therefore, already stationed on Alexander’s right wing. The second interpretation
hich is accepted by Tarn, was that Coenus was sent to Alexander’s right, as a feint.'*”
he third is that Coenus was sent against the Indian right in order to attack it.'°”? Th


Page 227, Instance 2, Class: Text
57) Tarn, 1948, 2.196, n.1,

°8 Tarn, 1948, 2.196, n.1, originally suggested by Bauer in 1898
579 Devine, 1986, 103.

580 Bosworth, 1995, 294-5.

8! Curtius 8.14.15; Arrian 5.16.3.

382 Arrian 5.11.4; 5.22.6.

83 Arrian 5.21.1.

584 Bosworth, 1995, 294.

585 Berve, 1926, 1.109-10.

586 Arrian 5.12.2.

8” Arrian 5.22.6; 6.6.4; Bosworth, 1995, 294.

88 Hammond, 1980b, 299, n.142; Hammond, 1980c, 466.
589 Bosworth, 1995, 294.


Page 227, Instance 3, Class: Text
Berve!*® suggested the possibility that Coenus in fact held both commands
simultaneously; the greatest argument against this hypothesis is that it would be unique in
he entirety of Alexander’s career. There are many instances of individuals being
promoted from one command to another, but the name attached to their former command
always changes; Cleitus is known as a taxiarch before the Hydaspes, 8° and as a
hipparch afterwards, but there is no evidence at all that his infantry command continued
es ey ee 0 PD


Page 228, Instance 1, Class: Text
Tarn!” argued that Coenus was promoted to the command of his hipparchy ;
Taxila, but that the pezhetairoi taxis that was formerly his continued to bear his name
even though he ceased to be its commander. There is one example of this occurring i
Alexander’s career following the death of Hephaestion;'>"! but this is almost certainly
special case given his intimate position with Alexander. The continuation of the use c
Hephaestion’s name is an honorary measure for a royal favourite, and thus not a paralle
for this situation at all. It is also inconceivable that Alexander was lacking in individual
with sufficient ability to take on the role of taxiarch, and any individual who did woul


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_228instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_229instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_230instance1.jpg]

Page 230, Instance 2, Class: Text
behind the Indian lines and attack them in the rear as they arrived to support Porus’ left
wing. We must ask the simple question, why would the Indian right wing move, or be
ordered to move, in support of the Indian left it they were standing opposite a significant
body of enemy cavalry? This would quite simply be courting disaster by inviting the
flanking attack that Alexander so coveted. The answer is simply that they would not, so
something else must have occurred. I believe that Coenus was initially stationed with
Alexander on the Macedonian right, but was ordered to circle around the right flank of
the Indian army once the Indian cavalry had begun to move. Arrian’s use of Wp Ex/could
refer to this; whilst it was not specifically a feint attack as he did not engage the enemy,
he was simply being kept away from the area of the line that he was assigned to attack
until the most opportune moment. As far as the Indians were concerned, all of
Alexander’s cavalry were concentrated against their left and thus reinforcing this sector
with cavalry from the right that were not engaged was a sensible strategy; it is
unfortunate for Porus that this was exactly what Alexander’s strategy required.

Hamilton and Tarn both discussed, at length, the movement of the Indian
cavalry;'™ Tarn'6! speculated that the Indian move was an offensive one, that Porus had
seen an opportunity to defeat Alexander himself at a time when he only commanded two
hipparchies and the agema. This hypothesis would presuppose a terrible risk if we
assume that Coenus was already on the Macedonian left, or moving towards it, as noted
above. Hamilton’s'®"’ suggestion is far more sensible: the presence of a large body of
Macedonian cavalry on the Indian left forced Porus to reinforce that sector; the move was
thus fundamentally defensive and caused not by a perceived weakness, but as a counter to
Alexander’s superiority in numbers. If we look at the battle from Porus’ point of view for
a moment, and apply the flanking tactics that Alexander was so fond of, Porus was
presented with a golden opportunity to attack the Macedonian heavy infantry in the flank
or rear; something that Alexander would certainly have done while expecting his
outnumbered cavalry'*? to hold their position long enough for the battle to be won. As
noted, however, Porus’ strategy was fundamentally defensive, and thus the cavalry
moved to reinforce the Indian left. Even after the detachment of Coenus, Alexander
would have perhaps 3,000 cavalry and the Indians 2,000;'¢"° hardly an overwhelming
disadvantage for the Indians, and yet still they chose to reinforce this sector. I would
count this as Porus’ biggest mistake in the entire battle; failing to take the opportunity for
a flanking attack, and choosing a defensive posture automatically. Porus was essentially
putting total faith in the ability of his elephants to defeat the Macedonian centre, a battle
that had not yet even been joined.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_231instance1.jpg]

Page 231, Instance 2, Class: Text
VaVall Y s1AMAT SUG Ull V1UIGL Wille. S4tlS GE UIICILL 15 silly MALLU, LL Aooulivs
that Alexander would have been foolish enough to attack the Indian centre from the front,
in direct opposition to the elephants. This is something we know Alexander contemplated
and rejected, realising the danger posed to his cavalry by the elephants. Even if
Alexander were to attack the Indian centre from the front, the cavalry flank guards would
not have been effective anyway. A flank guard of cavalry is designed to prevent the side
of an infantry body from attack, and also to prevent any potential encircling manoeuvre
that would have the infantry attacked in the rear. If Alexander were to attack the infantry
in the flank or rear, then the elephants were not in a position to prevent this, being
stationed as they were at regular intervals across the front. Devine calls the Indian
transfer of cavalry “common sense”;'®? I would suggest it was a serious tactical error
that failed to take advantage of the potential for a flanking attack against the Macedonian
centre.

Uli lALlan armian that tha teancfar Anewnm AN nm enmetemnmern tem Alnvnaaslagta mianrereee barre


Page 232, Instance 1, Class: Text
avoided at all costs, hence Alexander’s orders for the flank attack in the first place. “The
overriding factor is that untrained horses will not approach elephants...Certainly Coenus
could not have passed in front of them”: !°4 Hamilton is here referring to Coenus’ pursuit
of the Indians, rather than of his cavalry transferring from one side to the other, but the
nrncinie af the aronment ic the came.


Page 232, Instance 2, Class: Text
There is a possibility that the orders to Coenus that we have preserved in the
ources are not the full extent of the orders given to him. Bosworth’® has noted that
Coenus was only given orders based upon the eventuality of the Indian right moving tc
einforce its left; no mention was given of what he was to do if that move did not occur.
Sriffith'©”* brings up the point that Arrian may have missed out the first part of the order
hat which would deal with this situation. If Arrian’s text is defective it is more likely to
ye Ptolemy who is at fault, given that Arrian did preserve the orders to Craterus in great
letail only a few pages previously. Bosworth'®’ notes that if the Indian move did not
ake place, then Coenus would have to deal with any attack from the Indian right himself,
yr more likely simply hold his position. This would have been much as Parmenio had to
lo for many years in every set-piece battle Alexander fought before the Hydaspes; on this


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_232instance3.jpg]

Page 233, Instance 1, Class: Text
not to engage until it was evident that the
Indians, both horse and foot, had been thrown
into confusion by the Macedonian cavalry.


Page 234, Instance 1, Class: Text
The initial attacks by the horse archers were a vital element in the battle, as i
scognised in the casualty lists.'“> Their repeated attacks were all but impossible for th
lefenders to counter without dangerous gaps opening up. If the Indians had charged the:
\lexander would have had the situation he often craved, that of using a relatively mino
nit to draw the enemy out of their pre-prepared positions to allow his favoured flankin;
ttack. This was the case at the Granicus and at Gaugamela at the very least. Bosworth'™
otes that this continued harassment prevented the Indian cavalry from reorganisin;
hemselves in order to meet the coming charge from the Companion Cavalry.


Page 234, Instance 2, Class: Text
This 18, of course, the crux of the matter, and provides us with ample information
on Alexander’s tactics for the battle, particularly when examined in conjunction with the
orders to Coenus. Arrian tells us clearly, with no room for ambiguity, that the infantry
were not to engage the enemy until they were in visible confusion as a result of his own
flanking attack. The discipline of the Macedonian infantry, and of their commanders, is
clearly demonstrated by the fact that this command was followed to the letter;'“? the
infantry only advanced when the Indian cavalry had been defeated and confusion reigned
in the centre because some cavalry troops had fallen back onto the elephants and the
infantry.'“ Porus’ fundamentally defensive strategy made it easy for the Macedonian
infantry to stay out of the battle until the opportune moment, but we can also assume that
lece diccinlined commanders misht not have heen able to prevent their men from


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_234instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_235instance1.jpg]

Page 235, Instance 2, Class: Text
50 That the movement of cavalry occurred behind the Indian line is argued for above.
51 Polyaenus Strat. 4.3.22.

52 Arrian 5.17.2.

53 Arrian 5.17.2.

54 Diodorus 17.88.1; Curtius 8.14.17; Plutarch Alex. 70.10-11.

55 Bosworth, 1995, 300. cf. Diodorus 17.88.1; Curtius 8.14.17; Plutarch Alex. 70.10-11.
56 Arrian 5.17.3; Curtius 8.14.18.

57 Curtius 8.14.18.

58 Curtius 8.14.22.

159 tte 21494


Page 235, Instance 3, Class: Text
Porus’ carefully laid defensive strategy was in tatters; he was forced to move his
lephants against the Companion Cavalry in order to prevent a flanking attack and the
ntal destruction of his cavalry.'° The movement away from the centre gave the
Aacedonian centre the opportunity it was waiting for to take the offensive and finally
yin the battle: although Curtius strongly implies that they were already engaged by this
oint, this seems unlikely as the timing would have been poor: the tactical situation
vould not yet have been right.'©’ The confusion in the Indian ranks was rife at this point;
ll tactical cohesion had been lost. Curtius tells us that a small number of elephants led by
orus moved against the Macedonian centre in an effort to break the Greek infantry.'**
the Macedonians were initially successful in the centre, but the reappearance of the
lephants changed things: “Victors moments before, the Macedonians were now casting


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_236instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_236instance2.jpg]

Page 237, Instance 1, Class: Text
The Indian cavalry and Infantry suffered severe losses, and those that were able to
» through any small gap in the Macedonian cavalry line did so. These were hunted
vn mercilessly by Craterus’ fresh troops that had been crossing the Hydaspes during
battle.'°” Arrian tells us that Craterus began to cross when he saw Alexander's
mphant success; but this cannot be the case: if he was able to overcome the Indian
»ps still left at the main camp, and chase down fleeing Indians, he must have begun
ssing as soon as the battle was joined to allow enough time to ferry across sufficient
yps to be effective. Porus surrendered to Alexander only when there was obviously no
nce of victory, and their exchange is well known, but not relevant here save to say that
us was reinstated in his kingdom which was also subsequently expanded. If Porus’


Page 237, Instance 2, Class: Text
6 Plutarch Alex. 60.11; tells us that the enemy was not overcome until the eighth hour. This only gives us
peneral picture that it must have been evening as the Macedonians had to march from the crossing point
id defeat the Indian advance force before this battle was fought, we can reasonable assume it would not
ve started before mid day.

7 Arrian 5.18.1.

8 See above p.29 n.126.

9 Bosworth, 1995, 301.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_237instance3.jpg]

Page 237, Instance 4, Class: Text
The battle wore on into the evening! and, the elephants gradually became
-xhausted, their charges became ever feebler. Alexander again seized his chance and
surrounded what remained of the entire Indian army, signalling for his infantry to lock
shields and advance upon the enemy in a solid mass.'®’ The expression “lock shields”
ased in Arrian is curious; if the heavy infantry were equipped as we might expect them to
nave been, with sarissa and pelta, then it would quite simply have been impossible to
‘lock shields”: the pelta was too small. I have argued earlier’ that on occasion, as in
the Shipka Pass, the Macedonians were occasionally equipped as regular hoplites having
first commandeered the shields of the mercenaries and allies (who were not employed
then and probably not here either). I’m not convinced that Alexander would have
>quipped his heavy infantry with the hoplite shield here as the night crossing of a river in
spate would be difficult enough with the small shield, doubly so with a larger one. If the
infantry were still equipped with the pelta then the order reported by Arrian is simply a
reference to forming in the most compact formation available, not literally to “lock
shields”. Following the same argument as used with the shield, I am not convinced that
the sarissa was used at the Hydaspes for much the same reason. The sarissa is not
specifically mentioned at the Hydaspes by any source, and indeed it is not mentioned at
all after Gaugamela. For the Hydaspes I believe the infantry were equipped with the pelta
and hoplite spear which I argued earlier would have been carried with the army in great
numbers for just such an occasion.


Page 238, Instance 1, Class: Text
The recorded losses for the Indians are the converse of the Macedonian:
ibelievably high. Arrian gives 20,000 infantry and 3,000 cavalry, Diodorus does not
stinguish between troop type but gives 12,000 dead and 9,000 prisoners;'*”* almost the
me total number. Both also note the capture of the surviving elephants and the
struction of all of the Indian chariots.'®”° The only thing that we can really learn from
e figures for losses was that the fighting was hard, Macedonian losses were relatively
gh with the Indian losses being significantly higher; more than this we are not in a


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_238instance2.jpg]

Page 238, Instance 3, Class: Text
This 6,000 is a reference to the two faxeis and the total of the hypaspists. If we
in assume that there would have been losses amongst the light infantry, those that were
| amongst the elephants most of the time, then Diodorus’ figure looks the mor


Page 239, Instance 1, Class: Text
to work, but they were not Macedonian and therefore Alexander would not have been
bothered unduly by this. The sacrifice of a few non-Macedonian troops to achieve victory
over Porus was a small price to pay, and one that had been paid previously during all of
his set-piece battles.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_240instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_241instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_242instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_243instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_244instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_244instance1.jpg]

Page 245, Instance 1, Class: Text
The initial engagement took place on a hill outside the city; around the hilltop ths
Cathaei placed three consecutive defensive rings of carts.'©' Their intention was to forc
he Macedonian infantry’s formation to be broken as they passed through or over the
arts, thus allowing the defenders to fall upon a disorganised enemy.'*? Alexander di
what I have tried to argue he always did: in the words of Arrian “Alexander modified hi


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_245instance2.jpg]

Page 245, Instance 3, Class: Text
Instead of blindly attacking the defenders, Alexander used the same tactic that had
een so successful only weeks earlier at the Hydaspes: he opened the battle with his
Jahae horse archers firing upon the defenders from a distance; this time it was to prevent
he defenders attacking Alexander’s forces whilst they were still deploying. Arrian again
iow mentions Cleitus as a cavalry commander; his hipparchy had evidently performed
vell enough at the Hydaspes for him to be given its permanent command. I would argue
ne exception to this, however: Arrian also mentions the “special cavalry hipparchy” 684
n conjunction with Cleitus’ command. This special hipparchy I would argue was that
vhich Cleitus had commanded at the Hydaspes, which is to say it consisted of cavalry
ectuited in Bactria and Sogdiana. Cleitus was evidently transferred from this hipparchy


Page 246, Instance 1, Class: Text
The Macedonian order of battle, therefore, shows a traditional pattern: heavy
fantry in the centre, the hypaspists and Agrianians to their right and cavalry on both
ings. The only major difference was the strength of the rear guard: this was not a
ctical requirement as the battle would not be against a foe likely to break through the
lacedonian lines, but a large reserve was employed simply because the front line would
ive been very short, and there was not enough space to locate all of the front line troops


Page 246, Instance 2, Class: Text
he brought Cleitus’ mounted regiment and the special
cavalry round to the right wing of his army, with the
guards and Agrianians in close touch...before his
dispositions were complete, the rear-guard, both horse
and foot, arrived on the scene; the cavalry was used to
strengthen the wings, and the additional infantry units
tr tarnranca tha anl i Aiéeer nfthn elholanwce


Page 246, Instance 3, Class: Text
Bosworth interprets Arrian’s text as locating the Agrianians in the centre of the
line between two heavy infantry taxeis, although he also noted the improbability of this
scenario, and that Arrian no doubt misinterpreted his source. It seems to me, however,
that Arrian clearly places the Agrianians on the right, stating: 8


Page 246, Instance 4, Class: Text
to another one, presumably one whose hipparch had been lost at the Hydaspes.'® The
fact that the Persian cavalry were still closely linked to Cleitus is in recognition of his
special bond with those troops having commanded them in the Bactria/Sogdiana region,
as well as at the Hydaspes. This special cavalry hipparchy cannot have been the agema,
as Arrian uses that term specifically of that unit; they were something different from the
normal troops and can only have been the Persians formerly commanded by Cleitus.
Bosworth interprets Arrian’s text as locating the Agrianians in the centre of the


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_246instance5.jpg]

Page 246, Instance 6, Class: Text
Alexander then launched his typical limited initial attack, hoping to draw th
ofenders out onto his own ground, but on this occasion they did not bite. Alexander wa
erefore forced to surround the wagons and attack from all sides.'®’ Curtius tells us tha
e unorthodox defensive tactics of the Cathaeans caused some disarray among th
[acedonians, ‘©? but he overplays the situation with the attack on the outer ring o
agons. Arrian focuses his attention on the inability of the cavalry to have any positiv.
npact on the battle; the defenders on the outer ring would have soon been dislodged
ywever, when the infantry came within striking distance. The critical time of the batt
as almost completely ignored by Curtius: this would have been the attack on the inne
ngs, as the infantry would be disorganised after scrambling over and through the oute
ng of carts, to be met immediately by bands of defenders who were waiting to fall upot
em.'* This fighting would have been more brutal and casualties would have beer
eher than in the attack on the outer rine. After the second ring of carts was breached


Page 247, Instance 1, Class: Text
the Cathaeans withdrew to the relative safety of the town, after suffering significant
losses;!©” Alexander rested his troops the remainder of the day.'©7!


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_247instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_248instance1.jpg]

Page 248, Instance 2, Class: Text
This flying column marched directly towards the capital city of the Malli, across
he Sandar-Bar desert, taking them utterly by surprise from the north. The campaign
gainst the Malli on the Hydraotes was brutal and, by this time, very predictable.’ ”
“ivilians in the area that were caught in the open were slaughtered and no mercy was
hown. This was a terror campaign like that conducted in Sogdiana a couple of years
reviously. It is difficult to see what Alexander hoped to achieve by these tactics, other
han repression of the populace by a campaign of fear (which may have been goal enough
or him). The first fortified position that Alexander encountered was treated the same way
s Sangala. It was surrounded and the walls were sapped at the same time as scaling
adders were being used. The defenders retreated to an inner citadel, but this lasted no
onger than the outer wall. There is a hint in Arrian of the lack of motivation felt by the
ank and file that would soon almost cost him his life. Arrian tells us:'°8


Page 249, Instance 1, Class: Text
Alexander quickly captured the city, despite the lack of enthusiasm from his men.
The defenders that managed to escape fled to the Hydraotes River with the intention of
opposing Alexander’s crossing,'’””” but upon his approach withdrew towards the capital
city of the Malli people.'”'° Alexander immediately pursued them, but he had allowed his
cavalry to advance beyond the heavy infantry by some distance; upon seeing this, the
Indians, numbering some 50,000, turned to face the Macedonian cavalry.'’'' Alexander
evidently realised his mistake and kept the cavalry manoeuvring around and out of reach
of the enemy. The light-armed infantry, specifically the Agrianians and archers, quickly
caught up to the cavalry, and the heavy infantry appeared in the distance; this was enough
for the Mallians to retire to their capital city and await the inevitable siege.'7!*
1709 jw FC OAL AF Drcwrrvth 1000 192


Page 249, Instance 2, Class: Text
Alexander, ahead of his men, was up (the
scaling ladder) in a moment, and stood there
alone, a conspicuous figure, holding the breach.
The sight of him struck shame into his troops, so
up they went after him in scattered groups.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Figure\page_249instance3.jpg]

Page 250, Instance 1, Class: Text
Alexander began siege operations in a relatively standard fashion: he surrounded
the city with his cavalry to prevent anyone escaping, or help arriving. Once the infantry
were in place, the assault began; scaling ladders were used and we can presume sapping
operations also, given that they had occurred in recent siege operations with great
success. The outer wall of the city was taken with ease, and the inner citadel was
invested. At this point, the enthusiasm of the infantry evidently flagged;'’'* they had
expected to be travelling home after their mutiny, but it was evident to them now that
Alexander was continuing to campaign just as he did previously. Arrian tells us that the
reason the assault flagged was that there was a shortage of scaling ladders and some
reluctance among the hypaspists to mount the final assault.'’'* Alexander’ s response to
their reluctance was what Bosworth called “one of his most heroic feats of arms”.'”!°

The feat was undoubtedly bold, but also remarkably foolhardy. Alexander scaled
a ladder himself, and stood atop the battlements in an effort to inspire his men; the act
worked as the hypaspists were evidently falling over themselves to join him.!7!° Their
renewed vitality was their undoing, however, as the scaling ladders broke under their
sheer weight of numbers and Alexander stood almost completely alone atop the
battlements with thousands of Malli looking on. Alexander only had with him a mere
handful of companions, including Peucestas who carried the shield of Achilles that had
been looted from Troy in 334.'7!”

In an act that was at best a calculated gamble,'’'* and at worst rank foolishness,
Alexander leapt from the wall into the city to face the Malli in hand-to-hand combat. The
fight within the city must have been brief; Alexander was shot through the lung by an
arrow and for a time Peucestas, Abreas and Leonnatus took the brunt of the Mallian
attack, fending them off the body of the injured Alexander.'’'” The hypaspists quickly
recovered their composure and forced a way through the main gates to come to the aid of
Alexander; the carnage was terrible. Every living soul in the city was slaughtered in a
massive act of revenge.'’”’ The incident of the siege, and of Alexander’s wound, has
subsequently become almost legend, but that hides a number of key issues. The army was
clearly losing all enthusiasm for continued conquest, and it was only by increasingly rash
acts that Alexander was able to keep it motivated.

The siege of the capital city of the Mallians was to be Alexander’s last major
campaign, and it was one that almost cost him his life. From this point, until his death in
323, the campaigns were minor affairs, and not conducted personally by Alexander, given
8 Bosworth, 1988, 136.

4 A rrian 6.9.2-3: cf. Curtius 9.4.30.

‘7S Bosworth, 1988, 136.

‘71 Arrian 6.9.3.

'7 Arrian 6.9.4, also notes Leonnatus, a hypaspists commander, and Abreas, “one of the chosen soldiers
on double pay.”

“'S Arrian 6.9.5 tells us that Alexander was under fire from ranged weapons in nearby towers, and that
Alexander reasoned he would have grater chance if he were not such an obvious target on the wall.


Page 250, Instance 2, Class: Text
Alexander began siege operations in a relatively standard fashion: he surrounded
the city with his cavalry to prevent anyone escaping, or help arriving. Once the infantry
were in place, the assault began; scaling ladders were used and we can presume sapping
operations also, given that they had occurred in recent siege operations with great
success. The outer wall of the city was taken with ease, and the inner citadel was
invested. At this point, the enthusiasm of the infantry evidently flagged;'’'? they had
expected to be travelling home after their mutiny, but it was evident to them now that
Alexander was continuing to campaign just as he did previously. Arrian tells us that the
reason the assault flagged was that there was a shortage of scaling ladders and some
reluctance among the hypaspists to mount the final assault.'’'* Alexander’ s response to
their reluctance was what Bosworth called “one of his most heroic feats of arms”.'7"°

The feat was undoubtedly bold, but also remarkably foolhardy. Alexander scaled
a ladder himself, and stood atop the battlements in an effort to inspire his men; the act
worked as the hypaspists were evidently falling over themselves to join him.!7!° Their
renewed vitality was their undoing, however, as the scaling ladders broke under their
sheer weight of numbers and Alexander stood almost completely alone atop the
battlements with thousands of Malli looking on. Alexander only had with him a mere
handful of companions, including Peucestas who carried the shield of Achilles that had
been looted from Troy in 334.'7!”

In an act that was at best a calculated gamble,'’'* and at worst rank foolishness,
Alexander leapt from the wall into the city to face the Malli in hand-to-hand combat. The


Page 250, Instance 3, Class: Text
been looted Irom Lroy In 354,

In an act that was at best a calculated gamble,'’'* and at worst rank foolishness,
Alexander leapt from the wall into the city to face the Malli in hand-to-hand combat. The
fight within the city must have been brief; Alexander was shot through the lung by an
arrow and for a time Peucestas, Abreas and Leonnatus took the brunt of the Mallian
attack, fending them off the body of the injured Alexander.'’!” The hypaspists quickly
recovered their composure and forced a way through the main gates to come to the aid of
Alexander; the carnage was terrible. Every living soul in the city was slaughtered in a
massive act of revenge.'’”’ The incident of the siege, and of Alexander’s wound, has
subsequently become almost legend, but that hides a number of key issues. The army was
clearly losing all enthusiasm for continued conquest, and it was only by increasingly rash
acts that Alexander was able to keep it motivated.

The siege of the capital city of the Mallians was to be Alexander’s last major
campaign, and it was one that almost cost him his life. From this point, until his death in
323, the campaigns were minor affairs, and not conducted personally by Alexander, given
73 Bosworth, 1988, 136.

4 A rrian 6.9.2-3: cf. Curtius 9.4.30.

‘7S Bosworth, 1988, 136.

71° Arrian 6.9.3.

'"'” Arrian 6.9.4, also notes Leonnatus, a hypaspists commander, and Abreas, “one of the chosen soldiers


Page 251, Instance 1, Class: Text
The destruction of the city of the Malli was followed by a number of minor
campaigns, as mentioned above, of which we have too little information to be of interest,
followed by the march through the Gedrosian Desert which is not of significance to this
study. Upon emerging from the desert, Alexander headed for Susa; summoning a number
of satraps and troops that were ultimately executed for some quite heinous crimes;'”*'
Alexander was attempting to restore order and discipline and at the same time sending a
message that he was still in charge. From Susa, the army was divided into several
columns, all of which ultimately headed for Babylon; Alexander taking the more direct
route through Opis.


Page 251, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘is grave injury. As his final military act, the siege shows at once his bravery and
ecklessness. Alexander always led from the front, he was always the first to engage the
nemy; be that as commander of the Companion Cavalry or the first over a wall during a
iege operation. These were characteristics that have given him an enduring legacy but
ould so easily have cost him his life much earlier, perhaps at the Granicus during the
amous incident where he was almost beheaded. We also see in this siege (and also
arlier at Sangala) the Macedonians were utterly tired of constant conflict; they had been
romised a journey home and they could only see endless warfare in front of them.
\lexander would soon, if he had lived, have to increasingly rely on native Persian troops
uch as the 30,000 “successors” and Persian cavalry that he was using more and more; we
an only imagine how his tactics would have changed to accommodate the changing


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_252instance1.jpg]

Page 252, Instance 2, Class: Text
Alexander’s achievements have stood the test of time as being amongst the most
xtraordinary and impressive in the entire annals of military history. Whilst it is possible,
s I have done, to criticise some individual mistakes on the part of Alexander, he
onsistently showed himself capable of adapting to every new challenge and environment
at presented itself. The set-piece battles of his early career gave way to vicious guerrilla
ampaigns in Bactria and Sogdiana, and he adapted his tactics and strategy, as well as the
rganisation of the army, in order to meet these emerging threats. He also showed himself
apable of adjusting his strategies in order to capture a series of seemingly impregnable
ywtresses throuochout his career like Ture and The Gnadian Rack for examnile.


Page 253, Instance 1, Class: Text
do this: Xerxes famously used local guides to tum the pass of Thermopylae and defeat
Leonidas and the 300 Spartans. '”73 Alexander used the same tactic to similar effect
frequently, including the turning of the Persian gates. We also know of local guides in
Bactria, India and in almost every one of Alexander’s campaigns. He evidently was
aware of the need for acquiring as much intelligence of the enemy and the terrain as


Page 253, Instance 2, Class: Text
Alexander repeatedly shows himself capable of learning from his mistakes.
‘requently, the first time Alexander attempted something new it was less than a stellar
uccess: for example in the first field campaign at Pellium, Alexander allowed himself to
e essentially trapped and boxed in on all sides by the enemy and had to execute a tactical
vithdrawal in order to extricate himself from an extremely difficult situation, subsequent
ampaigns were, of course, rather more successful. His first real siege at Halicarnassus


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_253instance3.jpg]

Page 253, Instance 4, Class: Text
Coupled with dividing the army into secondary columns, partly in order to
sonfuse the enemy, were the famous lightning forced marches that Alexander frequently
-onducted so as to surprise an enemy before he could finalise preparations for resistance,
such as the march from the Balkans to Thebes in only a few days. Time and again,
Alexander achieved rates of march that were staggering, and so often caused such a great
ssvchological imnact ynon the enamy ac tr mate the cnhceanent battle or sieve far less


Page 254, Instance 1, Class: Text
was not a glowing success: he only actually managed to capture one of the towers before
moving the army on further into Persian territory; the much more successful sieges of
Tyre and Gaza came some time afterwards. Alexander failed to protect the mole and the
siege towers at Tyre, something that he rectified during the later sieges of the seemingly
impenetrable mountain fortresses in India. He also demonstrates a willingness to learn
from his enemies, as soon as the Bactrian/Sogdian campaign was over; Alexander
employed a group of Dahae horse archers that he employed with devastating effect in the


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_254instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_255instance1.jpg]

Page 256, Instance 1, Class: Text
Was there a development in strategy? This is a fundamental question, and not
asy to answer without obfuscation. At the very start of his career, from the first
ampaign in the Balkans, Alexander appears to have a set of strategies that was fully
eveloped and used repeatedly in every operational environment. This, however, is to
1ask the more complex issue that those same strategies that were employed at, say the
lydaspes, were rather different from those used at Issus. They were essentially the same


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_256instance2.jpg]

Page 256, Instance 3, Class: Text
Ine third element that can be considered a halimark of Alexander's Strategic
thinking was attacking the enemy in multiple directions simultaneously. This is again a
strategy that was employed at every opportunity, and is one of the key reasons for
Alexander’s consistent success. Alexander realised that no matter how well trained his
army was, it was always massively outnumbered, and that his infantry were not hoplites
and thus not suited to a simple hoplite-style battle. If the enemy stood up to the initial
shock of the sarissa attack, the tide would quickly turn against them if the battle was
prolonged. We do indeed see the Macedonian infantry hard pressed at Issus and
Gaugamela precisely because the battle lasted longer than Alexander would have liked.
Alexander deployed the flanking attack strategy for a number of reasons: it shortened
battles, and both reduced the possibility of the heavy infantry breaking and increased
their shock potential as they knew they did not usually have to fight for long. Flanking
attacks against the enemy also routed them far more rapidly then an unsophisticated
frontal assault, thus ensuring a more rapid and guaranteed victory. Shortening the battle
also led to fewer casualties; a vital consideration as Alexander moved further and further
away from Macedonia and easy replacements. The supreme example of the flanking
attack during the career of Alexander is at Issus; Alexander planned a whole series of
brilliantly conceived and executed flanking movements that devastated the Persian host
and gave Alexander a rapid and decisive victory with an apparently small loss of life on


Page 256, Instance 4, Class: Text
Alexander certainly demonstrated that he was capable of devising quite brilliant
ind original tactics when the situation presented itself, such as the mole at Tyre and the
yowerful flank guards at Gaugamela; but more then anything Alexander was a great
ecycler of strategies. The small number of key tactics that Alexander employed, as
ighlighted above, were used at every opportunity in every sphere of warfare. Flanking
ttacks were used, for example, at Tyre and Gaza to prevent the enemy from
concentrating their defence against the sector where Alexander expected to break
hrough. Even during sieges, Alexander was able to draw the enemy onto ground of his
hoosing, as at Sanagala: where the defenders chose initially to engage Alexander outside
he city, Alexander retreated to a nearby hill to draw them away from their city ensuring
nore would be slaughtered as they fled after the inevitable defeat. Alexander’s key
trategies were so effective, and executed with such brilliance, that he seldom needed to
nnovate beyond them. The execution is, however, a fundamental issue. These were not
imply strategies that were slavishly followed at the expense of any other considerations;
hey were adapted and evolved to different conditions, theatres and environments with
qual success. Alexander’s real creativity as a tactician was in developing and adapting
so ayictinga cet af ctrategiee tn cane with every citiation that nrecented itcelf throiuchout


Page 257, Instance 1, Class: Text
leas, but were constantly being adapted and developed to cope with new enemies and
ew theatres of warfare. The answer, therefore, can only be both yes and no; the
trategies employed were fundamentally the same throughout his career, but were
anctantlhy haing adanted


Page 257, Instance 2, Class: Text
JAS LLL Y Uvillis, GUGP Lene

Why was Alexander ultimately so successful? Firstly we have to consider his
most superhuman ability to inspire his men continuously to ever greater feats across the
eadth of the known world. Secondly, the career of Alexander the Great represents a
markable nexus of events that is virtually unparalleled in history. Alexander was also
e finest strategist and tactician the world had yet seen. He repeatedly demonstrated an
ility to fight in every theatre of war the ancient world had to offer and to continuously
lapt his strategies and tactics to every emerging circumstance. These factors — genius
ad circumstance — combined to enable the Macedonians to create, in less than a decade,
1 empire that spanned the known world. Alexander’s achievements are legendary, and
wave worthy of ctidyv.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_258instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_259instance1.jpg]

Page 261, Instance 1, Class: Text
bh. W. Davis, [he Persian Battle Plan at the Granicus, James Sprunt Studies in History
and Political Science 46, 1964, 34-44

H. Delbriick, Geschichte der Kriegskunst im Rahmen der politischen Geschichte (Berlin
1920), tr. W. J. Renfroe, History of the Art of War within the Framework of Political
History (London 1975)

A. M. Devine, The Location of the Battlefield of Issus, LCM 5, 1980, 3-10

A. M. Devine, A Note on Tactical Terms, LCM 7, 1982, 62-63

A. M. Devine, Embolon: A Study in Tactical Terminology, Phoenix 37, 1983, 201-217
A. M. Devine, The Strategies of Alexander the Great and Darius III in the Issus
Campaign, Ancient World 12, 1985a, 25-38

A. M. Devine, Grand Tactics at the Battle of Issus, Ancient World 12, 1985b, 39-59

A. M. Devine, The Battle of Gaugamela, Ancient World 13, 1986, 87-116

A. M. Devine, The Battle of the Hydaspes: A Tactical and Source-Critical Study, Ancient
World 16, 1987, 91-113

A. M. Devine, A Pawn-Sacrifice at the Battle of the Granicus, Ancient World 18, 1988, 3-
20

W. B. Dinsmoor, Archons of Athens (Cambridge, Mass. 1931)

W. Dittberner, Issos, ein Beitrag zur Geschichte Alexanders des Grofen (Berlin 1908)

T. A. Dodge, Alexander the Great Vols I-II (Boston 1890)

A. von Domaszewski, Die Phalangen Alexanders und Caesars Legionen, Heidelberger
Sitz. — Ber. Phil. — hist. Kl. 16, 1925, 50-65.

P. Doherty, Alexander the Great: The Death of a God (London 2004)

J. W. Eadie, The Development of Roman Mailed Cavalry, JRS 57, 1967, 161-173

P. H. L. Eggermont, Alexander’s Campaign in Gandhara and Ptolemy’s list of Indo-
Scythian Towns, Orientalia Lovaniensia Periodica 1, 1970, 63-123

P. H. L. Eggermont, Ptolemy the Geographer and the People of the Dards, OLP 15, 1984,
191-200.

J.R. Ellis, Alexander’s Hypaspists Again, Historia 24, 1975, 617-618


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_262instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_263instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_264instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_265instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_266instance1.jpg]

Page 267, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘ R. Mughal, Excavations at Tulamba, West Pakistan, Pakistan Archaeology 4, 1967, 1-
J. A. Murison, Darius III and the Battle of Issus, Historia 21, 1972, 399-423

J. M. O’Brien, Alexander the Great: The Invisible Enemy (London 1992)

F. Papazoglu, The Central Balkan Tribes in Pre-Roman Times (Amsterdam 1978)

L. Pearson, The Lost Histories of Alexander the Great (New York 1960)

H. W. Parke, Greek Mercenary Soldiers from the Earliest Times to the Battle of Ipsus
(Oxford 1933)

W. K. Pritchett, The Greek State at War, vol. 1 (Berkley at Los Angeles 1971)

W. K. Pritchett, The Greek State at War, vol. 2 (Berkley at Los Angeles 1974)

W. K. Pritchett, The Greek State at War, vol. 3 (Berkley at Los Angeles 1979)

W. K. Pritchett, The Greek State at War, vol. 4 (Berkley at Los Angeles 1985)

W. K. Pritchett, The Greek State at War, vol. 5 (Berkley at Los Angeles 1991)

W. K. Pritchett, Essays in Greek History (Amsterdam 1994)

P. A. Rahe, The Annihilation of the Sacred Band at Chaeronea, AJA 85, 1981, 84-87
W. J. Renfroe, History of the Art of War within the Framework of Political History
(London 1975)

P. J. Rhodes & R. Osborne, Greek Historical Inscriptions, 404-323 BC (Oxford 2007)
P. J. Rhodes, A History of the Classical Greek World: 478-323 BC (Oxford 2006)

E. E. Rice, Alexander the Great (Stroud, Gloucestershire 1997)

J. Roisman, Ptolemy and His Rivals in His History of Alexander, CQ 34, 1984, 373-385
P. Romane, Alexander’s Siege of Tyre, Ancient World 16, 1987, 79-90.

P. Romane, Alexander’s Siege of Gaza — 332 B.C., Ancient World 18, 1988, 21-30.

B. Rubin, Die Entstehung der Kataphraktenreiterei im Lichte der Chorezmischen
Ausgrabungen, Historia 4, 1955, 264-83


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Image\page_269instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/The campaigns of Alexander the Great/Form\page_269instance2.jpg]

