[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/ATGTIE/Figure\page_1instance0.jpg]

Page 2, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander the Great: The Invisible Enemy


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/ATGTIE/Image\page_3instance0.jpg]

Page 3, Instance 2, Class: Text
Alexander the Great: The
Invisible Enemy
A biography


Page 4, Instance 0, Class: Text
Routedge x a imprint ofthe Taso & Francis Grp
“To prche your own copy ofthis any of Tylor & Fane Road's ection
sig rar Not ik ye pind


Page 5, Instance 0, Class: Text
For Dorothy Peluso O”Brien, whose love and strength of
character enabled me to endure this labor


Page 6, Instance 0, Class: Text
erence
Acknowledgments
Frequenly cited sources the text
List of maps
Prologue
|The coming of age in Macedonia
Dionysus tn the Royal Tombs
Macedonian desing
Phulip and Alesander
Olympias and Alexander
‘he Dlonysac cut n Maced
Olympia, Philip, and Alexander
‘The Gardens of Midas (343-340 BC)
Hero models
Regent (340 BC)
The ble of Chaeronea (338 BC)
Ales (338 BC)
‘The wedding of Philip H and Cleopara (337 BC)
‘The Phundars aa (336 BC)
‘The asassnaion of Philip I (236 BC)
1A Homeric King
‘The accession (336 BC)
Alexander in Greece (396 BC)
[Northern campaigns (235 BC)


Page 7, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘The desiruction of Thebes (235 BC)
iawn (35 BC)

Alexander's exualy
Aeander tthe Hellespont (234 BC)
The bt ofthe Granics River (334 BC)
Asia Mino (334 BC)

‘The Gordian knot (333 BC)

‘The bale of lsu (333 BC)

Phoenicia (233-332 BC)

The siege of Tye (332 BC)
Exypr(332 BC)

Alevandria (331 BO)

The journey to Sia (331 BC)

‘The bale of Gagamela (331 BC)
Babylon ana Suse (331 BC)

‘The metamosphosis

The sign of change

‘The burning of Persepolis (330 BC)
Orientation

‘The Philos afar (330 BC)

The death of Cletus (328 BC)
Proskymesie

Calsthenes

‘The pages conspiracy (327 BC)

Nya aed Aor (227 BC)

‘The ambivalent victor

Iho “India (326 BC)

‘The bale ofthe Hydaspes (helo) River (326 BC
“Mutiny” athe Hyphasis (Beas) River (326 BC)
Ocean (325 BC)


Page 8, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The Gedvosian Desert (325 BC) n
Carman (325-324 BC) f
Pers (324 BC) f
Cyr” tomb (224 BC) r
Sua (324 BC) ft
Deipcation (324 BC) i
‘The Opis “mutiny” (324 BC) r
‘The death of Hephaestion (324 BC) x
S Death in Babylon x
‘The ast plans (323 BC) x
‘The death of Alewander (323 BC) a
Epilogue 2
Appendiv A: The Royal Tombs 2
Appendix B: Anvibaes of wine in Aleander the Grea's readings 2
Postscript 2
‘Key 1 abbreviations of frequenty cited journals 2
Notes 2
List of pis in the Bibliography z
‘Bibliography x


Page 9, Instance 0, Class: Text
Early in his istrious carer, Alexander the Great faced the challenge of
tempting to undo the Goran knot Legend had it thatthe man who could
‘accomplish thi feat ould rule all of Asia (oe. the Pesian Empire). The aot,
however hd no visible ends and i remained intact despite the resolute efforts
‘of resourceful men. Inthe most fanilar account of Alexander's endeavor st
Gord, the king. utery tusuated, rises his swoud and slashes staight
‘rough the knot. 1a another version, however, Alexander utlizes an obligue
"ratagem. He simply removes the dowel holding the kno place exposes ose
nad tis i

“Tis book examines Alexander's personality in @ mana tht evokes the
ltemative version ofthe Gorum inckdent, The enigia of Alexander the ma is
the fonnidable knot that unravels when the dowel—the god. Diooysus—is
emaved. This work will diet the reader's attention to those interludes in
‘Alexanders life whea his ath crossed tat ofthe wine go. Enough lose ends
Sutace inthe process to justify afresh look at cea aspects of Alexander's
‘Petsnalit that have dus fr defied explanation,

"The mos perplexing ofall such considerations is Alexander's metamorphosis
"Even as be performed ane epic deed afer another. this superb wate began 19
exhibit «disturbing personal transformation, During the las seven years of his
Ife Alexander became increwingly unpredictable, sporaiialy violent
‘megalomaniac, and suspicious of faeads as well a enemies. Wht could have
‘atte sucha lamentable ransformation? This book explores that question in &
‘way tha egutes the reader's forbearance Until exposed threads begin wo reveal
pallens in Alevander’'s behavior

"The elusive god Dionysus, whois poled ia the Prologue, pays an imprtant
tole in this book. His chanctr is Tleshed out asthe text develops and his
‘burgeoning impoct on Alexander becomes more apparent. The espet Donystis
‘equiv in antiguity has been extended to him here. The god will manifest
Himself im various forms, and is therefore tested as areal vital force
‘Alexander's

“Alexander is sid to have slept witha copy of Homer's Hiad unde bis pillow.
He emulated its hero, Achilles, tom boyhood. The young king also
detonated a parila interest in Gres ana, and especialy in he plys of
"Euripides He quoted from that uagedin’s Baechae exemporancously. Excepts


Page 10, Instance 0, Class: Text
{rom these two masterpieces ate interspersed throughout the text. Removed from
their ovigial context. vitwlly stripped of punctuation, and used in an
‘unorthodox fashion, they serve, in some ways as a Greek chows, providing
commentary on the action, and expressing thoughts that may have echoed
fHvough Alexander's own mind on ecesion The eacepl are alo employed
ilusttate and intensify the heroic and Dionysiae dimensions of Alexander's
experience. Ax the reader progresses trough this work twill Become evident
that its the precarious balance ofthese elements that lends a uagic quality tothe
man's ie,

"Tis hook has been writen with the general reader in mind and with an eye 10
sents and scholas. Miltary matters and politcal considerations have been
‘Kept to Bae minimum becuse ofthe focts on Alexander's personality, but
Jntresed parties can pursue. these questions dough the Notes "and
Biliography 1 have reluctandy declined to include an analysis of the ancient
Ssoures becuse ofthe nature ofthe present work and he Tact that So many of
‘hese studies (particularly the impeesive conuibutions of AB Bosworth) ae 200
readily aval

T must make it clear that a definive study of Alexander's personality is
‘unatsnable Bcause ofthe fragmentary and contradictory nate of the sous.
‘All effons to fathom the man fenain litle more than educated gueses, colored
‘by the investigator's itrests and presuppositions. Most ofthe assertions made
ete, however hive the advantage of being toed in the ancient sourees, both
spologetic and ciical, These aserons, live, would have been intaigible
{0 Alewnder and his contemporaries. To those who objet 1 the Way in Which
the great conqueror is poruayed, Fcommead the Woes of his tio, Astle
‘who reminds us that “noone is able to attain the truth adequately, while, on the
‘ther hand, no one fails entiely, but every ve says something wae about the
‘ature of things” (Metaph. 993,


Page 11, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘This research was supported (in pt) bya grat fom the City University of New
York PSC-CUNY Reseach Award Program. The Intlivary Loan units at
Queens College and Teikyo Post University were instrumental in my effets 1
complete this work. The book has potted iestimably from the ericisms and
Suugestions of scholars wo were Lind enought ead potions of te manusctipt
at Various stages in is evolution: Thomas W.AMric, Beate Hein Benet,
‘AB Bowworh, Elzabath DCumey, Est A iedsickemeye, Halton
Waldemar Heckel, LDonald Hughes, Harry Gene Levine, Paul RLonisan,
Robert Emmet Meagher, KD.Mins, JMMossman, Robia Room. Wolfgang
Zeew Rubino, Elward-David ERuiz, Frank Salviio, Alan R.Schulm,
‘Sheldon C, Selle, Dav Side, and last, but by no means least, Robert Ton,
T accept exclusive responsibility for any residual defects Nonspecialists
<onuibuted with unfithomable generosity. The Herculean effore of Ania
‘Tell, Burney Rickenbacker, Sondra Rosenberg, and Kaen Salomone have
‘humbled me with grate. Other splendid people have also made sgeficant
conubutions to this volume: Majone Adler, Stutt Astor. Goldie Buon, Thea
Borpere. Lewis Beshers Gina Bianchi, Noca Bed, Willan HLBohne,
‘Alesandko Bose, Thomas Brennan, M.D, Thomas 1Byme, Suzanne Chemtb,
Karen Cony, Marianne Cont, Deanna Crooks, Andteana Fiiots, Basle
Fits, Georgia Flos, Vasiliki Filo, Eleanor Friedman, Dennis Gab,
FBdythe BGatner, Coleus Goliski, Geraude. Halpern, Thoms, Heck
Dovothy Hissis. RD.R. Hoffmann, Doug Jamison, Paisia Jamieson, Ingrid
Jevsick, Erte Johnson, Gertude Kaige, Susan Kane, Suzanne Kate osept
Krachie. Raymond Lampe, Wiliam L. Lawson, Data Lewis, Chis MeGariga
James MeLandish, Mary McLoughi, Emmett McSweeney. Aaron N. Malet
Morgan Maney, che inimitable D1H.Murdoch, Aida Nema, Marie Nal, my
daughter Chistae O'Brien, my daughter Lillan Caherine O'Brien, my son
‘William James O'Brien, Dolores Orsi, Robert Page, Pat Pai John W.Pice,
‘Wiadysla Roezniak. Davis Serow, Apeaita Sik, JoAnn Soldano-Rush, iva
Sossman. Jesse Spa. abella Tale Leoa That, Mary’ Tracy. Susan
‘Vaccutli, Joyce Weinstein, Brigite Winkle, and Mtlene Vahalom. Richa
‘Stoneman, Heather McCallum, and Sue Bilton of Routledge have been gracious
nd suppruve inthis mutual enlerpese, Ria ASweeney edited ths Wodk With
seni and efficiency.


Page 12, Instance 0, Class: Text
{am indebted tothe following individuals and publishers for permission to
quote fom copyrighted materials: exceyps frm The Had by Homer. wansated
by Richmond Latumore, copyright © The Univesity of Chicago Press, 1981
Exceps from The Baccue by Euripides in Euripides V, wanslated by Wiliam
Anowsmith, copytight © The Univerty of Chicago Press, 1959. Excess
‘repented by permission ofthe publishers and The Loch Classical Libay fom
‘Ain: Abts Aland and Tadca, Vols 236,269, tanlted by P-A Brut,
(Cambidge, Mass: Harvard University ress, 1976, 1983. Excyps repeated by
[emission ofthe publabers and The Locb Classical Library ‘tom Dior
‘Sicuus: itrury of History, vo 422 translated by C:B Wells, Cambidg,
‘Mass: Harvard University Press, 1970, Excerpts from The Age of Alexander by
Putte, taslted by lan Sctt-Kilvert (Penguin Classics, 1973, warslation and
sotes copytight © lan Seo-Kilven, 1973, inuoduction copyight ©
Toric, 1973. Excerpts fom The History of Alesander by Quintus Cus
‘Rufus, uandated by John Yardley (Penguin Classics, 1989), uanslation
copyright © John Yasdey. 1984, invoduetion, notes and addtional material ©
‘Waldemar Heekl, 1984, Excyps fom my ticle "Alexander and Dionysus: the
Invisible Enemy” in The Anal of Scholarship (1980) Excyps fom my ate,
“The Grand Elixir 2300 Years Removed: Attibutes of Wine i Alexander the
Great's Reading" Drinking and Drug Practices Surveyor (1980)


Page 13, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘A. Amian’sAnabasis Aleandri, Add. = Ari's Indica, Line cations and
‘quotations ae from P-A Brut's Loc eiton

P= Plats Lif of Alewander. PMor.~ Puach’s Moratia Line citations
sae from Bernadette Peri’s Loc edition of Alexander, but quotations ate fom
Ian Scot Kies Penguin wansltion, All quotations frm the Morala ae he
‘work of various wanslators inthe Loe edition,

D. = Diodorus Siulus" Library of History. Line citations and quotations are
from € Baford Welles’ Loch eto,

(C.= Curtiss History of Alewander. Line citations are from John C. Roles
‘Loch elton but quotations age fon John Yardey's Penguin translation,

4. = Justin's epitome af the Philpple Histories of Pompeus Teogus. Line
citations ate from the Teubner edition of O'Secl, but quotations are from
41S Watson's translation in Bob's Lira,

'S. = Strabo's Geogryphy. Line cations and quotions ate fom Horace
‘Leonard Jones’ Loch editon.

‘Ba. = Euripides’ acchae. Line citations are fiom Anhur S.Way's Lach
cation, but quotations aze from Wiliam Arrowsmill's University of Chicigo
‘taslton

TL = Homer's Mad. Line citations ate fom A:TMustay's Loch edition, but
quotations ae from Richmond Latimote's University of Chicago uanslation

Please consult the Bibliography for amtore complete deseipaon of these works

[NB All dates inthe following pages ace BC unless aterwis indicated


Page 13, Instance 2, Class: Text
Frequently cited sources in the text


Page 14, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The Greck World 336 BC
‘Alexander's Campaigns 334-323 BC
rom Pll to Sunu 331-330 BC
India and Ocean 326-325 BC


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/ATGTIE/Figure\page_15instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/ATGTIE/Figure\page_16instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/ATGTIE/Figure\page_17instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/ATGTIE/Figure\page_18instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/ATGTIE/Figure\page_19instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/ATGTIE/Figure\page_20instance0.jpg]

Page 21, Instance 0, Class: Text
Dionysos, dieu des ilusions, de la confusion et du brouillage
incest ent a lit ete aparences, a vit ta ton
A:PNerant and P.Vidal- Naga,
Myth eragéde en Groce anclenne I, 42

"Tagody presupposed an awareness of the intersection of
‘he Dionysian and bro spheres,
(Ceres, Dionysos, 329


Page 22, Instance 0, Class: Text
“The gad of everything that ossomed and teathed, Dionysus could surface in
the mpistue on a rose, bellow” majestically though 2 raging bull, or
Jmpecepbly shod old skin for new inthe guise ofa snake. He was the divine
fon ofthe these with an empty mask as his emblem, the ged of thousand
faces who epitomized metamorphosis, abd could wanifoem tals at wil
‘Ammed with ecstasy and madness this paradoxical deity would smile at human
<eteminaton and laugh at logic Ia league with death as wel as He, his elm
‘ached beyond the grave tothe murky waters ofthe etberword!

"The Grocks of classical aniguity assumed that Dionysus had come to them
fiom a distant land He was an enigmatic alien, who used might and magic 0
sash his cult in Hells, He was a newcomer, a strange, an exotic inet
‘who usurped his place among the twelve Olympians and Became an incongruous
‘heen god

By the age of Alexander the Great Dionysus had dspace the goddess Hestia
and st ast Ltcomer among the greater gods. He was now rqatded primarily
{asthe god of wine, although this was oaly one ofthe many zl he continued 19
play. Dionysus (Bacchus) was often portayed brandishing his distinctive
inking cup (cantharus) amidst a lash profusion of vine leaves and grpes
‘Crowned wit ny and laurel, be undertook log journeys acsoss the Word >
listrbut his joyous pitt to mankind

"The aft he brought was himself for Dionysus was not just the god of wine: be
‘was the wine uel. The presence of Dionysus could be fl though the liguid
Tee of the gape, and this celestial potion enabled mortals wo partake of is
livin. Te drinker became an inspite recipient of Dionysus’ benefits and had
{he god within fenheas ina eal sens.

‘The most welcome of all of wine's Benefactions was is ability to distort,
seality and make human existence palatable

For filed with that good pif. suffering mankind forgets its git: om it

oes sleep: with oblivion ofthe troubles of the day. Tete i mo other

‘medicine for misery. And when we pour libations to the gods, We pour the

{od of wine himself dat dough his intercession man may win the Eve

‘otheaven,

(a, 280-5)


Page 23, Instance 0, Class: Text
Dionysus proffered himself ough Wine, and mortals revealed his personality
(as well a heir own) dough drinking and drunkenness. A number of the g's
epithets deseribe his atactiveatsbutes oe pais the nefits wo be called fom
Is precious gift! He isa relaxer ofthe mind, «bear of soso, a dipeller of
‘care, provider of oy. a menyanaker, and a lover of laughter rer eis refer
to his les adaable characteristics, and simultaneously serve asa reminder of
‘he potential destructiveness of his earthly agent. He isa dsturber ofthe sul, 8
‘mind-bcaker, a bestower of envy. a dispenser of anger. a chaser of sleep, a nise-
taker and ie,

"The vse effects of wine unmasked the fundamental ambivalence ofthe go
and revealed kindred quality in mosas. Wine ealted the spit bait also bad
the capacity 10 unleash primordial impulses. Under is influence a veneer of
Sophistication might disappear abruply. and civlty could be uasformed into
‘unconuolale rage. The Wine god disclosed reasons uneasy sway over emotion,
and served as cling reminder of bestiality atthe cave

In Greck antiquity the Bacchic cult elicited images of maniaal women and
dysteriaratber than excellence aree) and epic deeds. Thus, asp heocs ba
tendency fo neglect this god—excep, of cous, in his potable mode. This
‘oglet was 4 dangerous path to lake however, sace these who withheld the
Tbstion from Dionysus or were remiss in acknowledging his power and
Importance were key to Become the object divine eibuion

Dionysus was capable of altering the perceptions of mostals and ultiatey
‘maddening them.’ Those aficed would undetgo profound changes that
‘manifested themselves in uncharacteristic behuviog. The dely’s prey were
ometines lft bearing «peculiar likeness tothe gol they had fended, while
‘maining sublimely unaware tha thir mpoty had stied the daker side of an
‘ommpresnt and iauinble enemy. This proces is pecps mest eloquently
ported in Ewipides’ Bacchae, in which Penthets, the king of Thebes
fecomes a stoic victim of Dionjsus Pentheus is deserbed san ambitious
{young man, who is ntet upon esblishing his reputation a a ruler of singular
<istinction” Although he pesesses the requisite gualies forth ataiameat of
hotoic staure—an impressive lineage, loly axpttions. perseverance. and
courage'—some uaheroie atibues bepin to emerge asthe play unfolds

Peatheus is plagued by insecurities These breed compulsion to be
succesful a all times and a need to be universally honored for his unique
excellence. His obsession with the enhancement and defense of his own
feputstion  surfces in grandiosity, slfrightcous anger, and
curious preoccupation with thase capable of disclosing his deficiencies,
Disproperionsely cerebral be ia vit of his own nintegrted personaly?

Peuteusatlemps to supess the inatioal i hinsel, bt i fascinated by is
expression elsewtere- Mote adolescent than adult, hei ferul of unlosing the
floodgates of his own emotions, Pentheusis ok enough tobe king, but eens
‘mated and womanless, thereby ignoring the cardinal obligation to produce an
hit tothe throne, Immature and self-centered,” this beandless hero channels his


Page 24, Instance 0, Class: Text
abundant energies into activities that elevate his stature, but also contribute to his
‘egalomaniacal tendencies.

“The moments af uiump in the lie ofthis uoubled hero ate overshadowed by
tis inability to achieve inner harmioay oF a sense of wellbeing. Sporadic
‘outbursts of ungovemable anger belie the aur of stability and coawol he Wishes
to projec Penthous forges ahead in his fenzied etfs wo accumulate as many
laurel as possible

Dionysus rises the veil and reveals the king's we nature. The go asives in
‘Thebes disguised asa tnan withthe intention of establishing bis cult there, He
‘petplescs and disturbs Pentheus by refusing to allow te king to impose his wll
{pon him Older and wiser men implore the King to alter his tute toward
Dionysus, but he disregards their advice and is detemined 10 uproot the
Dionysic “disease.” Peatheus is unable wo accep th fact that ei poweres in
te presence of this “man” Brastated in his efforts wo achieve coauol over
Dionysus Penthou instead finds himself cooled bythe god

Dionysus, whose divine plan so conver a elictnt supplant into one of his
‘own devotes and then setifis him, lies his adversary’ intense cariost 12
Ture him int observing the cult in action. Peneus is build into wearing the
‘at of «female disciple of Dionysus This ac of rbing provides the pele 1
his victimization. The king then undergoes metamogposis which leaves him
‘eafng suing resemblance tothe goto whom he hasbeen condescending
and impious. Unwitingly, Penteus has become the anthesis of everthing he
Intended 1 pessoa

‘Spellbound bya deity who blu disinctions and finds humor inthe sigidiy of
the heroic outlook. Penteus discovers tht his categorical thinking {einer
sara. The confused ruler completly suzeadrs tothe Bacchi iafuence and
‘ommingles notions that he had previously believed to be mutually exclusive:
{he Hellene andthe Asiatic the hunter andthe hued, male and female, man and
‘east moval and inmost” Gradually, but inelucably. Dionysus moves his
«quay from the realm ofthe tangle othe domain ofthe cimericalPereption
comes delusion, samiy is usurped by madness, and vitality gives way 10

"The very name Pentheus promises suffering (penthos) and suggests pathos,
‘butte significances lst on its bearer. Hei su tobe experiencing the rye of
insanity that drugs cannot cur. This king, who has ben promised glory reaching
to the heavens by Dionysus, is persuaded to spy on the revels ofthe Dionysia
‘Women from atop a wee. He is dacovered, pulled 10 the ground, and ten to
pices hy Agave his own mother Fletngly,Peatheus becomes awe of Wha is
happening to im, but this revelation occurs oo late tobe ofan use oh,

“Aste Bacce draws oa lose, the king's severed head Looms grotesque
symbol ofa man divided agaist himself" I also serves asa gem reminder of
‘he empsy but smiling mask of Dionysus.


Page 25, Instance 2, Class: Text
be
may
te
(Ba. 220)


Page 26, Instance 0, Class: Text
DIONYSUS IN THE ROYAL TOMBS

In 1977 the Greck archaologst Manolis Andionicos began unearthing thee
cient tombs at Vergin in Macedonia, of which had miraculous escaped
pillage! When Andronicos removed the keystone from the vault atthe backend
{Tomb I, be gazed upon a epostory of mageicen arcs in situ Tom over
2.300 yeas ago. His discovery coatemed the suspicion of NC. Hammond that
‘Veep was once Aegae, the ancestal capital city of Macodona and the
‘eational burl ground for its ues

"The contes of Tomb Il were particularly impressive. The sarcophagus
Tocaed in the main chamber held '24-pound gold chest with a Macedonian
starburst (or sunburst) emblazoned oa i cover. Iasi the chest was a golden
ak wreath, representing the tee sacied 10 Zeus, complete with delicately
‘wrought ranches. oak leaves, and golden acoes. Beneath the tea ay the
cemated remains of 4 man in his midfrties who had taken his list breath
luring the four century BC. Traces ofthe purple ele hat had coveted him
‘were sil evident

“The tomb isl? was constructed some ime between 350-310 BC, and since
‘Alexander Il ihe Great) had been entombed in Aleta, thee were only 860
‘Macedonian kings to whom these bones could be atihted. Andronios, the
dlscoveter of the tomb, and numberof historians, including Hammond, have
‘tg that hs nal likeliboo, the om of Philip I (359-336) the father of
“Alexander the Great. Other scholars have suggested Philip Anhidscus the half-
‘nother of Alexander the Great who suled ss Philp I (323-317), as 4 mone
plausible candidate The absence of any denying inscription prevents a final
‘Wot oa this mate, but ether case, the eecupant Was 4 blood slave and
comtemporary of Alexander the Great.

"The burnt bones of «young woman in Re twenties were found wrapped ina
‘gold and purple cloth placed ia a smaller gl ches inthe antchamber of Tom
TE Vestges a mae Teenager were uncovered in Tomb HL. Tomb 1. which had
‘en denuded by grave robbers, contained the skeletal deposits of «wom,
‘an, and what may have bees aewbom infant. These bones, and oer human
‘mains trom the Royal Tombs at Versina, continu wo inspite speculation and


Page 26, Instance 2, Class: Text
1
The coming of age in Macedonia


Page 27, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘mpssioned controversy among resarchers.° The dents ofthe occupants of
‘hese tombs wll probably never be established conclusively.

‘Within the walls of the unpillaged tombs, however, thre luiked another
tenant, whose wruthlike presence it indspauble, striking. and ubiquitous!
Dionysus. This god, who! could appear as a suberancun (cluhonios) deity
cloaked in aback gatskinfmelanalis).° must have been a ease unde the huge
‘mound that crowned these burial vaults fr ver two milena, for he was Bo
stranger to death Here nthe unloted tombs at Verpina, Dionysus manifested
Fimsel ashe god of wine. Tom I'cntaned an speciale nurnber and variety
of diaking cups (se Appendix). I also housed bah lage and small wine as
1 bucket to wanspon the sated guid, « mixing bow «spoon. lade and
Steainer—in short ll ofthe paraphernalia necessary for an epic dtinking pasty
‘ter than the wine self andthe presence ofa few lve quafers. The Findings at
‘Veena are therefore coosistent with Eugene N Boras assertion that “hus fat
the archaeological evidence seems to suppoct the notion thatthe Macedoian
petty was aha drinking Io.”

-MACEDONIAN DRINKING

In this mia

sand bowls

‘rimming

with

ba. 221-2)
In a surviving feagment from his lost On the Death of Alexander and
Hephaestion, Ephipps. an Olothian scandal-monger who joined Aletandet on
his Aslan expoion, characterizes the Macedonians asa people who “never
lundestood how to dak ia moderation. Ephippus claims that they dank 50
‘uch tthe beginning of fest hat they were drunk bythe ime the fist couse
‘Was served. In Plato's Gorgias, one ofthe disputats, Pols accuses Arcelas of
usurping the Macedonian throne by hosting his vals, geting them drunk,
‘arying them of in a wagon, and maudering them.” Such ines sain edu.
‘ut coroborte the fact thatthe Macedonians were singled outa «people who
drank excessively. Ancient Greks diluted thei wine with water—possbly for
economy. but ceainly to discourage intemperance.” Moderation was the
hallmak of the civilized, while gulpng was forthe vlga. abd drunkenness Was
the way ofthe barbsian The Greeks Were highly ential of Macedonians, wh,
Tike Darbrians, drank wine undiluted and in prodigious amounts And the
prototypical Macedonian drake was Philip the father of Alexandr the Great
‘The Athenian orator Demosthenes andthe hisoian Theapompus of Chics, both
of whom knew King Philip IL provide us with graphic descriptions of his
‘dinking. Demosthenes likens Philip oa sponge: Theoponypus clans that the
‘Macedonian king nt only got drunk on daly basis, but was often inthis sume


Page 27, Instance 2, Class: Text
In a surviving fragment from his lost On the Death of Alexander and
Hephaeston, Ephipps. an Olyathian seandsl-monger wio joined Alexabdet on
his Aslan expoion, characterizes the Macedonians asa people who “never
lundestood how to dak ia moderation. Ephippus claims that they dank 50
‘uch tthe beginning of fest hat they were drunk bythe ime the fist couse
‘Was served. In Plut's Gorgias, ne ofthe disputants, Pols accuses Arcelas of
usurping the Macedonian throne by hosting his vals, geting them drunk,
‘arying them of in a wagon, and maudering them.” Such ines sain edu.
‘ut coroborte the fact thatthe Macedonians were singled outa «people who
drank excessively. Ancient Greks diluted thei wine with water—possbly for
economy. but ceainly to discourage intemperance.” Moderation was the
hallmak of the civilized, while gulpng was forthe vlga. abd drunkenness Was
the way ofthe barbsian The Greeks Were highly ential of Macedonians, wh,
Tike Darbrians, drank wine undiluted and in prodigious amounts And the
prototypical Macedonian drake was Philip the father of Alexandr the Great
‘The Athenian orator Demosthenes andthe hisoian Theapompus of Chics, both
of whom knew King Philip IL provide us with graphic descriptions of his
‘dinking. Demosthenes likens Philip oa sponge: Theoponypus clans that the
‘Macedonian king nt only got dunk ona daly basis, but was often inthis same


Page 27, Instance 3, Class: Text
impassioned controversy among researchers.° The identities of the occupants of
‘hese tombs wll probably never be established conclusively.

‘Within the walls of the unpillaged tombs, however, thre luiked another
tenant, whose wruthlike presence it indspauble, striking. and ubiquitous!
Dionysus. This god, who! could appear as a suberancun (cluhonios) deity
cloaked in aback gatskinfmelanalis).° must have been a ease unde the huge
‘mound that crowned these burial vaults fr ver two milena, for he was Bo
stranger to death Here nthe unloted tombs at Verpina, Dionysus manifested
Fimsel ashe god of wine. Tom I'cntaned an speciale nurnber and variety
of diaking cups (se Appendix). I also housed bah lage and small wine as
1 bucket to wanspon the sated guid, « mixing bow «spoon. lade and
Steainer—in short ll ofthe paraphernalia necessary for an epic dtinking pasty
‘ter than the wine self andthe presence ofa few lve quafers. The Findings at
‘Veena are therefore coosistent with Eugene N Boras assertion that “hus fat
the archaeological evidence seems to suppoct the notion thatthe Macedoian
petty was aha drinking Io.”


Page 28, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘tate when he rushed into battl.'* Political and personal biases permeate these
‘sccouns, but there iso question tht Philip's drinking was, as Hanlon
Claims, "notorious" Philip gave prowacted danking pats. engaged in
inking bouts. and got drunk with predictable eeglarity. His dining seams
to have followed the patter ofa reward eee: peat expenditures of energy on
the batlfild wete followed by raucous celebrations andthe consumption of
Jug quate of “uncut” wine® Theopompus righ characterized Philip, who
‘was rumored sleep witha gold drinking cup under his pillow, asa philopots,
‘over of dink.”

Far snost of is fe this extraordinarily sccessful man appears to have been a
sather genial drunk who accepted citicism, laughed at himself, and even
‘modified his deportnent when admonished, In one incident an aggrieved woman
omplained about one of Philip's decisions, ad he asked to whom she appealed
‘She sted, with ler reference to his condition, that ber appeal was oa sober
Plilip. The King quickly eame wo his senses, reconsidered the eas. and decided
ine woman's avo" After his peat vitory at Chaconeain 38 Philip downed
large umount of unmixed wine and... paraded trough the mist of his capes,
ering all the time atthe misfortunes af the lekess men” (D.1687.1). When
the Athenian capive Demades shouted that Philip acted moe ike the Homeric
sant-hero Therstes than Agameranon, the king abandoned his cevelry and feed
Desmades in reward fr bis courageous reprimand.

Blip’ drinking prowess had its advantages. aa watior society. where epic
‘oping Wasa source of admiration and intemperance a vitue, the cvalicr and
fexusvagant way Philip caied oa must have comtibuted 10 his. personal
‘nystgue- He kept boon companions, comedians and musicians clos t hand for
imprompaa dking paris, and seemed to favor those who dank as be di
‘Theopompus claimed that Philip spoot mest of his ime wih these men "because
of thse Love of diaking and thee vulgarity, and with them e used t0 old
‘eberations onthe most important mates"

‘While it appears that seme temperate dinkers with essential sills also
‘became members of his cour, they could easily Become targets ofthe king's
sardonic humer Fo istance, Philip's astemious general Amipater was once
‘Single out in the kings situate announcement of is intention fo get dru:
“Now we must dink: for i is enough that Anipater is sobet Is ear fom
«his eference tht his nondsinking companions Were fe.

Heavy drinking was also adnied by some now-Macedonians and in this
espect Philips vuoi Was to his adsanage. Theopompus lamed that Philip
‘won overmastThessallans "by parties rater than by presets." Catering those
‘wih an appetite for wine siniar to his own Philip Used he great capacity ssn
instrument of diplomacy. There must have been dificult moments, however, far
{hose who fled shar is gargantuan appetite for dak al hours. One ight
imagine the look of stoi esigntion oa the faces of Aenian envoys bracing foe
Heflowing win atte erack of dawn =

Tris no surtsing that Philips son atempted to emulate the royal tiple par
‘excellence, When holding bis wn at diking party (sytnposum), Alexander's


Page 29, Instance 0, Class: Text
inking probaly elicited almost as much admiation fom his men as his
toes onthe buted I also seved to confirm in an xd but significant wy
thar tis boy was his father's son and a worhy successor. Ie is onic at
‘Alexander. who would see so litle of Philip during his boyhood and who was
eteined to distinguish himself fom hi, would in this abd a multitude of
‘other ways come to replicate so many of is father’s atu and ations.
PHILIP AND ALEXANDER

Blant men ately produce biliant sons, and Alexander was fearful at an easly
‘age thatthe shadow east by bis father would elise his own ambitions. He wat
Incapable of sharing in Philips glory. and became determined fom the outset
‘make his own mark, His father ws said fo be “aman without precedent in
Europe" In war and_ peace, ates and celebeitions, negotitions and
plundering, Philip exhibited an inepressible exuberance and unique
personality. These qualities, coupled with hs iteligence and courage, and his
Stccession ‘of unpufallelod vetoes on the butte, made him a folk hero
mong Macedonians. He was the savior of an imperiled county, valiant
‘Warr, secondo nove infighting and inking, andthe da of his bale seared
veterans Alexander would have to demonstrate that he, to, was ma of
Singular’ distinction. Furhemore. he had to show the wevld that he was not
‘merely the equal of, but scully superior to, hi famous fates

Prlip's ely attude toward Alexander offers every indication of patemal
‘ride, affecton, and personal commitment tothe boy's future Pitch cur main
ure for Alexander's youth estes story probably told many times over by
‘Alexander himself” When Alexander was nine or 0,” his father was
Inspecting 4 Thesalian horse being offered forsale. This black stallion, with
either a white pach o his forehead oan ox-bead band that eae him the mame
Bucephlas (“oheud")" proved tbe unmanageable, and Philip oxdeted him
tobe taken away.

“What a hose they are losing, and ll because they dn’ know how to handle
tim, oF date nt ty!” (P62), declared Alexander, Philip asked his son if he
found faut with fis elders Did be think he knew nove tha they? Could be
hndle horse tte” Alexander was quick 4 respond tht atleast he could
handle this one beter. Then Philp wanted w know if Alexander would be
willing to set value on bis impertinent claim. Without hesitation, Alexander
answered that he would ay the full price ofthe horse if he were proven tobe
‘wrong. This pronouncement drew a chorus of laugh. The sling pice ofthe
horse wis sito be thiteestalent an astronomical sun, and no obe expected
young Alexander to succsed where accomplished horsemen had fled
‘Neverthe is ater fered him te opportunity to prove bis claim,

‘They ae dificult horses for mortal mento manage.

all except Aces [Acils)

Ut 10.402-4)


Page 30, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Alexander began by twening the head of Bucephalas toward the sun. With the
petcepavty so characteristic of his later behuvioe on the batlefild, he bad
otced that the hose shied away fom his own shadow; and this simple
‘maneuver eliminated an unsetting distraction. Alexander calmed the horse and
‘wosted alongside him un the proper moment, wea he singer) leaped upon his
‘ck. Philip and his companions eld thei breath “ual they saw Alexander
‘each the end of bis gallop, turnin full contol, and ride Back tiumphant and
exiting in his success. Thereupon the vest of the company broke ato loud
Spplase, while his ater, we ate tol, atally wep fo jo. and when Alexabder
‘had dismounted, he kissed hi and sad, "My boy, you must fad a kingdom big
ough fr your ambitions, Macedonia to smal fr you” (26.8).

Demat of Corinth diplomat, purchased the hose and presented him as &
sft so Alexander. Until Bucephalas was 30 years old he cuted his ster ino
Some of Alexander's most elbrated bats. The king's fondness for this animal
‘was such that ate in ife, on the banks of te eum River i tne Pais,
‘he honoved his horse by founding the ety of Bucephal in his memory.”

the ines ofl ores beneath the sn

UL 3266-7)

Philip must have appeared inpuessive and amiable to his young son onthe one
‘hand, yet imperious and intimidating oa the eer. The kig’s biting humor and
{oval nici may have kept Alexander, tha so nay oles eta and
‘utious when in his father’s presence. clue to the relationship between father
Sd son's found in an anecdote veconded by Plutarch. who tells us that
“Alexander complained about Philip's vag of ehilden by women othe than the
boy's mother His quick-wined father ignored the accusation and. adoitly
teased the problema obs son. “Wel then, if you have many competitors for
the kingdom, prove youre honourable std goad, so that you may obtain the
Kingdom not because of me, but because of yourself” he exclaimed."

‘And Peleus the aged was teling his on son Achllews

to be always bestia bate

and pre-eminent

beyond

a

‘ers

1783-4)
"rom an carly age Alexander was intensely concemed withthe way i which he
appeated to othe people Plutarch says he "Valued his good name meve han his
Ie or his crown” (42) and “his passionate desie fr Tame implanted inhi 3
fide and grandeur of vision which Went fr beyond his yea” (48). Asan
the most authorative of Alexander sources,” says tha “he was fearfully
‘mast by love a fame" (7.2.2) He also makes the telling observation that “it


Page 31, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘was praise alone for which he was absoluely insta” (7.28.1). Seeking
confirmation of his uniqueness ftom others, Alexander did litle 0 discourage
Autres

Philip ad also been preoccupied with image and reputation, consciously
striving wo be above and Reyond otter men. His compete nature exempliied
the ethos of the Olympics: to do vmething well and conspicuously” Philip's
Mair for singuasiy and. predilection for challenge was teanslated into a
‘Maggering socesion of victories. Demosthenes tells us that Philip was willing
to socifice anything and evrything in onder 1 achieve hoaoe and glory.
Philip's infuence om Alexander inthis tespect sundial

‘When Alexander head that his father fad ake a important ity or enjoyed
some other special iumph, be reacted with dismay rater than elton. He i sd
{o have complained wo ficnds tat the king Would preempt them i evrything,
and expressed the fear that ison generation would be deprived a chance 1
Show the wold anything notewarthy: "And so every sucess hat Was gained by
‘Macedonia inspired in Alexander the dread that another opportunity fo action
‘had been squandered on his father. He had no desie to inher kingdom which
‘offered him ces, ures andthe pleasues of the sense: his choice was fe
fof stugale, of war, and of unclenting ambition" (P.1-6)°

Teas no small sk to become great when measured against Philip of
‘Macedon. Alexander, Arian tele us, offered his own sumnary of Pip’s
accomplishments in specch this Macedonian soldiers at Opis ia 324 BC:

‘ist ofall, hal bein my spesch with Philip, my fae, as sony ae

Pip took you oer when You were helpless vagabonds, mostly clothed in

skin, fecting a few animals on the thountains and engaged in tei

defence in unsuccessful Gghing with jeans, Tabalans and the

‘seighbourng Thracian. He gave you cloaks to Wear instead of his, be

‘ought you down fm the mountains to the plains: he made you a match

‘nate or the Barbas on your bodes... He made you ey delle

and esblishad the order that comes fom good las and customs. He

Stexed the greater part of Thrace to Mactdonia «opened up the county

to tnde..mae you the rulers ofthe Thesslans gave you aces io

Greece instead of our paying tute to the Athenians and king onde

from the Thebans..we gave them security. He (gained) recognition as

leader with full powers ver the Whole of the seat of Greece ia the

expadion against the Persians.

(792-8)

‘Aian's ext ela hat afer paying the respects sequzed by the cicumstanees
‘Alexander went on 1o minimize the significance of his faler’s contsbutons by
‘ontiting them wit his own, "These services which oy father rendered you,
‘teat as they are when considered by themselves lone, ate actually sal in
‘comparison with ou own.” He then offered a recitation of his achievements and
{he Deets he had cofered upon his oops (79.6-10.)


Page 32, Instance 0, Class: Text
OLYMPIAS AND ALEXANDER

Alexander followed in Philips footsteps with such spectacular sucess that he
‘acaped the anonymity with which cilden of famous parents are ordinarily
‘burdened. The fact that he id ot stain is father’s shadow. however, Wasa
accomplishment in itelf, due ia no small pat to the conered efforts of his
‘etemined mother, Olympia.” This ion-wiled woman di everything in her
[over to protect her son's interests and advance his carer. She beled to instil
I the boy the conviction that he would become an overwhelming suoces ia his
‘wn ight The elatioshiphetween Alexander apd his mother Was a important
Sno this day sil isa mysterious, aspect of is ie

‘Sir Willam Tarn coce wrote that Alexander "never caed for any woman
except his terrible mother” There is bile doubt that she was one of the
dominant inflbences in his early le. Even after Aleander had succeeded Philip,
{hei lationship was always marked by affection aod loyally. When Alexander
crossed the Hellespont to Asia in 334, Olympia remained in Europe as his
‘edoubable supporter, Throughout the vagsies of his monumental conquests
ad ultimate apotheosis (324), Alexander's profound dedication to his mother


Page 32, Instance 1, Class: Text
Alexander was sight His conquests dwarfed those of his father. However,
uring bis early years at Pella he could not ave frescen that he would enjoy
‘sich an astounding eater and th insecure engendered during this dificult
Petod echoed thoughout his entre life. Long afer Philip's death Alexander
Continued to be disturbed when people compured him unfavorably wih his
futher. Detemnined to he seen as the beter of the two, Alexander sized every
‘opportunity to go one step beyond Philp

Tm his temps to surpass his father, Dowever, be also imitated him. For
instance, while Philip named Philipp and Phiippopolis (Plovdiv) ater hinset
‘Alexander founded atleast twenty (perhaps mare than event) cites ia his
‘own nme.” Philip was the fist Macedonian king to reach the Danube, but
“Alexander was the fist to 10s i. Php transfered populations thoughout
rcter Macedonia. Alexandr contemplated massive tasers between Europe
find Asa Philip punished Thebes, Alexander destroyed it Philip dispatched
‘anguard across the Hellespomt bat Alexander crossed into Asia and conquered
the Persian Empie. And while Philip only fined with deiicaion, Alexander
‘ranged to have divin cl offered to hn during bis iene

some day

Tetthem sy of him,

Heis beter

by tar

than

his

father

1 6479)
OLYMPIAS AND ALEXANDER.

Alexander followed in Philips footsteps with such spectacular sucess that he
‘acaped the anonymity with which cilden of famous parents are ordinarily
‘burdened. The fact that he id ot stain is father’s shadow. however, Wasa
accomplishment in itelf, due ia no small pat to the conered efforts of his
‘etemined mother, Olympia.” This ion-wiled woman di everything in her
[over to protect her son's interests and advance his carer. She beled to instil
I the boy the conviction that he would become an overwhelming suoces ia his
‘wn ight The elatioshiphetween Alexander apd his mother Was a important
Sind his day sillisa mysterious, aspect of his ie

‘Sir Willam Tarn coce wrote that Alexander "never caed for any woman
except his terrible mother” There is bile doubt that she was one of the
dominant inflbences in his early le. Even after Aleander had succeeded Philip,
{hei lationship was always marked by affection and loyalty. When Alexander
crossed the Hellespoat to Asia ia 334, Olympia remained in Europe as his
‘edoubable supporter, Throughout the vagsies of his monumental conquests
ad ultimate apotheosis (324), Alexander's profound dedication to his mother


Page 32, Instance 3, Class: Text
Alexander was sight His conquests dwarfed those of his father. However,
duving his early yeas at Pella he could not have forescen that he would enjoy
sich an astounding case, and the inecurtes engendered during this dificult
petiod echosd throughout his ene life. Long ater Philp’ dea Alexander
Sontinued to be disturbed when people compared him unfavorably with his
futher. Detemnined to he seen as the beter of the two, Alexander sized every
oppotunty to go one step beyond Pali

Tm his temps to surpass his father, Dowever, be also imitated him. For
instance, while Pip named Philippi and Phiippopolis (Plovd) after himself
‘Alexander founded at est etyfive(pevhas move than seven) cities in his
own name.” Philip was the fst Macedonian king to reach the Danube, bu
‘Aletander was the first 10 exo i Philip wansfered populations thoughout
fyeater Macedonia Aleander cootemplated masive antes between Europe
dnd Asi. Philip punished Thebes, Alexander destoyed i, Philip dispatched
‘anguard across the Hellespomt bat Alexander crossed into Asia and conquered
the Pesian Empise. And while Philip only fined with dificaon, Alexander
trang to have divine cult offered to him ring his etme


Page 33, Instance 0, Class: Text
over wavered. Besioged by eequst from his viceroy ia Macedonia to cub her
Iesfering and obsteperous ways. Aleander is said to have rematked “that
‘Anipater di not understand that one ter shed by [ny] tooter would wipe out
ten thousand eters such as this (P3913).

‘While on the fringes ofthe kaown world, Alexander expressed thought be
‘had apparenly been mulling over for some tine: his mother's deifcation. He
{old clove fends tat "the prestest reward for ny efforts and my labours wil be
‘if my moter Olypias he granted imme os her departare fom fe" (C9.
620.

Atilleus who was born of an nmol ther

“dl 10.08)

‘Most of Olympias' male contemporaties. however, Found he wo be ovesbeating
‘The Athenian orator Hypeides indicates tht this could be Wue even at
dlstace. For instance, she wrote lees denouncing the Athenians for offing 1
‘make inpessive enhancements to a temple at Dodona in her native Epis
‘Accouding o Hyperides. Olympias, a member ofthe royal Molosian family of
‘pins, said in one lett: "This Molossan Land in which the temple i ine,
and it snot for you Athenians to ly finger on stone in that temple"™” Her
owtocing noted Hyperides, and he made the observation that Olympias bad
donated a votive cup tothe tate of godess i Athons, and that ater alte
‘Athenians had been commanded fo undertake the renovations ingestion by
‘es himself hough his oracle at Dodona. “And is Olympia, fosooth, to be
‘lowed to adorn out temples, while we are not pematedo adorn those in
Dosdiona even when dhe god hms hs old us to dot he asked.

‘Even Alexander's devotion was ceasonlly tuned os limits and asking
th Tound it necessary to eeprove Olympias When her words oe etions were
‘incompatible with his designs. On one occasion be is said to have asserted hat
‘is mother was charging an ally high teat for those few months she bad
Todged im during her pregnancy.

Te shouldbe noted tht Alexander's mother’s name was oot always Olympia
Jasin’ rendition of the events following Philip's assassination has Olympia:
‘onseraing the assailants sword to Apolo "under the name of Myra, which
‘was Olympas" own name when a child" (7-13). Grace Macurdy suggests hat
‘Olympiasadopedine name at the urging of her husband Philip because hiSoa's
‘ith coined so auspiciously withthe victory of Philip's hore atthe Olympic
{ames in 356." Nonetheless, we know for certain tht ahe was the ogphaned
‘laghter of Neopolemus, the late King of Epis. After the death of Olympiss
father, er uncle Arya assumed te throne and she became his ward" As a
sal peincss she proved o be valuable pan inthe poieal game of mariage

Plutarch els us that Philp fll in love with Olympia afer thei iitation ato
sav ancient mystery eulton the island of Samotrace inthe northern Aegean
Philip aranged fora betta Soom after thet inital encounter. This seems 10
hve occured inthe mik-orlate 360s, when Philip was no move than 20 and


Page 34, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Olympia barely past pubescence. Their mariage took place several yeas later
‘pohly ia 387, when Ompias was 18 oso and Philip in his mide-entes.

“The cult into which Philip and Olympas were inated was linked vith he
20 Dionysus. Olympas, however. apparently hal previous connection with
Dionysus in Eps, fray soa as the young ide aived in Macedonia she Was
eager onset her Bacchants inthe at of snake-anding” This sil iy
sblished Olympias’ reputation among local Dionysac enthusiasts. She led
fpivate bands of women in evel, and may have Become an oficial pists
{he god's public elt

‘Olypas was «proud Molosian whose ancestry could he traced to Achilles,
the legendary hero ofthe Trojan War’? Neoptoetns, the son of Achilles, hose
‘Andromache the widow of Hector. a his prize aftr the fll of Two. Tei wion
produced Molossus, the founder of the royal dynasty in Episus. Olympas’ blood
Ties were also aa o run to Helens. x son ofthe Trojan king Priam.” Ths,
she was able wo claim the distinction fa ineage tht included bath Achilles and
teas indirectly, Hector, the two great adversaries ofthe Trojan Wat

‘Alexander's boli that be was a descendant of Aches though his mater
‘had a profound effect om hs attude toward himself” Thetis, the divine mother
(of Achilles, had bod ber son in the River St) wit the intention of making
Fim immoral. According ta legen, er grip shielded his bel from the sacred
‘Waters and the boy renaied nol after a In similar way. the emotional rip
oF Olympias may have conubated othe vulverabity of her own bint son,

‘THE DIONYSIAC CULT IN MACEDONIA,

Alexander’ parents, both of whom were formidable influences in his ie, ach
enjoyed a special tclaionsip with the god Dionysus. Philp took rie in his
‘dinking prowess, and Olynpias showed uninhibited devotion tober god. As &
Yyoung man Alesander scents to have been contempaous of his father's
excessive dinking. but it was a practice he would emulate later i ie. And
‘while he apparently raised no serious objections to hs mother's ealousnes as 8
Bacchant, the young Alexander was me interested in eres such a Achilles
and Heracles. As we sbll se, Alexander the king would verve only inal
‘blguions toward Dionysus, and occasionally proved remiss even in that
respect.

Go worship your Bacchus

butdo not wipe

Yyourmadness

or

a. 33-4)

“This was a curious uit for a rule in whose realm Dionysus was exceptionally


Page 35, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘women of Macedonia, but he was also favorite among Alexanders oops, who
‘a eumed to appreciate his ich bounty through rural celebrations.” Perhaps at
the urzing of Olsmpias, Philp had increased the god's resentation on his
coinage, and even alded a eamharas, the cup of Dionysus, 10 the customary
lage of Heracles. Dionysus was aso std tobe found smnong ancestor inthe
‘oal family wee." The Worship of Bacchus, tgetber with ater taditional ites
‘observed by the ring Argead dynasty, formed te nucleus of te king's cule
practices The influence of Dionysus a the highest levels of society in ancient
‘Macedonia has become evident ough receat atchacologieal finds in nother
Greece, an his imposing pesence in the royal tombs at Vergina (soe Append
‘Aloffers eloquent testimony to his autor inthis eon

“Tam Dionysus, the son of Zeus... My mother was..Semcle the deity
announces in Euipides’ Bacchae (1-3). In Greck mythology Semel, pregnant
‘wih Dionysus, is consumed in lames when Zeus is manipulated by his wife
Hera ito appearing before his lover in all of his unbearable majesty, Inthe
‘Mandard version, Zeus snatches the fetus fom Semele’ burt body and houses
the prematurely bom Dionysus in his own thigh un the divine child can be bon
‘again at fl crn. He survives this unusual gestation unscathed, and later. upon
Teaning tat his mosher had disappeared into the underwodld eieves he and
stables heron Mount Olympus,

Dionysus can be found inthe company of loyal women thoughout his
‘mythological career. As a hl hei given ote 1o Io, the sister of Semele, who
‘ures an gourds hin, Ino snd ber busband Athans raise Dionysus a gl in
‘ide to dingise and protect hi from Hera, Ine ver her consort’ inielty
‘wih Semele, Hera maddens the g's adopsive parents, who then murder their
‘own cilden, Zeus intervenes, however rescues Dionys from the carnage by
‘toning him at a wild goat, and has Hermes shut him off to Asa, where th
young god enjoys sanctuary among the nymphs of Nya. Eventually Hera
‘manages to afflict Dionysus with madness, and the god, ia tum displays
‘rolivity fr driving mortals insane

Plulatch sa itis apparent that in Macedonia “from very ancient times all the
‘women...(vete} ines of the Orphic religion and of the orgasic rites of
Dionysus” (2.7). The observances in Macedoaia, he claims, were exteavagant
and superstitious ike those practiced in Thace. Euripides weot the Bacchae in
‘Macedonia (e 407-6) and may well ave been taluenced by what be bad
‘wimessed there abou a halEcentwy before Oympias’ arial” The fallowing
{excepts rom the play describe the physical appearance ofthe vitals associated
‘withthe Bacehate,

"A sarod herdsman relates what he sa

Fist they let dei hai fl loose, down ove toi shoulders, and those

‘whose sta hd lipped fastened ther skin of fawn with withing stakes

‘hat liked their cheeks. Breasts swollen with milk, new mathers who bad

Tether babies behind a home nested gazeles and young waives in thee

arms, suekling them, Then they crowned there with leaves, iy and oak


Page 36, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘fad Dewering layer. Que women steak ee proms [viet] aguas eck
and fountain of eo! water came bubbling up. Anotber dove her Teal
{nthe ground, nd whese it stuck the earth a the touch of god, a sping of
‘wine poured ou

(698-707)

Pastoal women are wansformed into revelers posessed by a divine madness
(tsaenad) fom whom the herdsmen fle in de o avoid "Being torn to pieces”
(734) These maniacal women then tack the herdsinen's cate wih heir bare
hands:

‘Unarmed, they swooped down ypon the hers of ete grazing there onthe

‘ree a the meadow. And then You could have seen a single woman With

‘hare hands tear fa ea stil ellowing wit igh a wo, while others

clawed the heifers to paces. There wete ribs and cloven hooves seatred

fveryubee, and seta smeared with blood bung fom the fir tees. And

bulls, thee vaping fury gathred in their hoes, lowered thet beads 10

charge, ten fell, tumbling othe eat, pulled down by hordes of women.

fd sipped of Mesh and skin mote quckly, ste, than you [entbeus]

ould ink your oyal eyes.

(san

"The promis fle after death was one of the great atractions ofthe ul." anda
ure fr resumection was tobe found inane version ofthe try ofthe god
‘sell. The fant Dionysus, it was said, was slain by Titans, who proceeded 19
00k his sh The vast was akeady unde Way when Zeus appeate and bumed
the assailants to a evisp. Dionysus was hom again after his limbs. were
‘easembled, abd mankind, we ate told. agose ftom the stoking residue of
‘Titans! Monals were warned Io purge the Titanic and exalt the Donysie in
themselves.

[Dionysus] desis his honor

fiom all unkind

He was

excluded


Page 37, Instance 0, Class: Text
Inates of their own sex Euripides implies that vitwous women, each
insulated by her own moral ber, could choose to remain chaste despite the
Fundamental amovaiy ofthe cult’ All hings considered, seems unlikely tht
Olympise would have engaged in promiscuity though worship. This would have
endangered he stats and compfomised Alexandr’ legitimacy. Thee i
evidence that inks Olympas with any man other than Philp,

Despite the impressive numberof women who appear in the ales of Dionysus,
sexual encounters are rare for him, and fatbeshood isnot an atuibute of his
character The god's sexual attudes, in sak conuast to thse of Zeus, ate
other menacing. noe pedsioy toward women. Instead, Dionysus, who is
drogynous by nature, offers 4 divine arche-ype for thoae who would be bth
Feminine and powertal”

‘OLYMPIAS, PHILIP, AND ALEXANDER

In the interval between thir fist mesting and his mariage to Olympas, Pip
coms to have maid thse other wives, each of whom happend to sit &
faticular politcal purpose at home or toad. Acconding Yo Says, a Greek
‘ographer, Philip fast maried Audala(c 389), the daughter of 2 woubesome
Iytian King on Macedon's norhwesem fron His subsequent mariage to
Plu (388) a Macedonian princess ftom Eliot, was perhaps atanged 10
‘lp him consolidate aus within is own seal, Satyrus gos on oteport hat
Piulip, hoping to esublish his claim to the Thessllan ation, alo" masied
Pinna of Lassa 358)"

Philip's murage to Olympiss, the fourth by this cout, may also have een
Jnspied mere by opporurity than fomance. Satyr is explicit in emphasizing
the polcal nature ofthe match” It enabled Philip to avoid entanglement on
‘Macedon’s southwestem ffonier and to concenate his efforts on his dive
asad

Each new wedding aso occasioned fresh hopes for a som and stccesor
‘Awdata ha given bith to daughter Cynane, and Phila died childless. Phin
‘ave bi 1 a Son, Philip Atidacus, but he was “hal-wined Plutarch ells
{8 that “asa boy he had shown an attactive disposition and displayed much
‘promise, ul Olympia was believed wo have given him dugs which smpaited the
Functions of his body and izepraby injured bis brain” (778). While Olympas
‘may be the victim of someone's slander hee, thee is no question tha she was
capable of the act. Ie was certainly on her order that Philip Avhidacus Was
executed in 317.”

"The stats of royal wife inthe women's quarters at Poll, the Macedonian
capita, was contingent upon the peoduction of children, peefrably, male
‘Olympias lost no time in esablishing er ascendant position among Philip's ther
wives Alexander was boen within a year 20 July 386)" and his sser
(Cleopaisa appeared soon allewards (e385)? Healthy, itligen, and
suacive, Alexander was weuted by bis Taher andthe cour a the Beir wo the


Page 37, Instance 3, Class: Text
intistes of their own sex: Euripides implies that virtuous women, each
insulated by her own moral ber, could choose to remain chaste despite the
Fundamental amovaiy ofthe cult’ All hings considered, seems unlikely tht
Olympise would have engaged in promiscuity though worship. This would have
endangered he stats and compfomised Alexandr’ legitimacy. Thee i
evidence that inks Olympas with any man other than Philp,

Despite the impressive numberof women who appear in the ales of Dionysus,
sexual encounters are rare for him, and fatbeshood isnot an atuibute of his
character The god's sexual attudes, in sak conuast to thse of Zeus, ate
other menacing. noe pedsioy toward women. Instead, Dionysus, who is
drogynous by nature, offers 4 divine arche-ype for thoae who would be bth
feminine and powerful. ®*


Page 38, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘tvonepethaps om bth and his igh standing assured his mother apreminent
tole among the royal wives”

Subseqdent marriages to Nicesiplis of Thessaly (e353) and Meda, a
Danubian princess (33), pebably mirrored Philip's interests in those ae.”
Fortunately from Olympia pia of view, no male child seems to have survived
fiom these martiages, or at least none appeared before Alexander seached
‘atu. Olympiae protected her sos intents with unfaerng vigilance and
‘exercise influence on is behalf whenever the opportunity peseted ise

Despite the absence of competes with Aleander far the poston of hei,
‘olympiae’ position atthe Macedonian court would remain precarious until ber
son becane king. During Alexanders youth abe influenced his ealy schooling
by providing « numberof tutors from either Epirus of «region under Molossian
‘ntlence. The most important af hese was Leonidas, a Kinsinan of Olympias.=
‘Alexander’ biterewest recollections of Leonidas suggest ha his mentor may
have Deen jst as demanding and austere as his namesake, who Was famous for
scsficing himself and his fellow Spartans at Themapsae ia 480. For instance
in souther Asia Minor in 334, Alexander, then in his early wens, was offered
the services of some of the most accomplished chefs ofthat region. The king's
response "was that he did not need them ecase his tutor Leonidas bad
‘ovided him with beter cooks than thes, that night march to prepa bion
Forbveakfast and ight breakfast o give him an appetite for supper "This same
‘Leondas..would often come and open my chests of bedding and lees, co se
‘whether my mother had not hidden some luxury inside” (P.228-10).*
COlympias sce to have recommended harsh skater who teed the boy as
‘he Were ite man, and Aletande's ele under Leonidas may hae bad 8
found effet om hi ia ltr yeas

His own mother

lke a pestess

with hee

Ba. 1118)
‘The el-denil perseverance, and astounding feats of endurance exhibited by
‘Alexander in adlthood were surely developed during this tine in an atmosphere
ff scruiny and esting. futher testing, and then move testing. Long aller
‘Alexander ha advanced beyond formal ssrbton, he coaiued to test unset
and often proved tobe his own most rigorous erie

Callsthenes, Alexander's court histvin, 5 said w have boasted on one
‘occasion tht Alexanders share in divinity (ace Chapters 34) didnot depend on
‘Olympias iavenion about her son's bith, bu eather om his own account ofthe
‘ongeror’s exploits,” This seems to confinn the asertion that Olympias
‘aimed the cooperation of a divine pater in Alexander's conception.” When
her son left fr Asa, Olynpas i sid to have reminded him tobe worthy of his
‘Berson Tet for Asad


Page 39, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The magnitude of Alexander's conquests and the exceptional demands he
‘ade upon himself are best understood in ight ofthe free competiveness hat
characterized his eatly yeas. By example and injunction is pues encouraged
the Boy (0 coteain lofty expectations of himself. Arian’ pescepuve
‘observations on Alexandt's cater rele! thing inflnce:

[None of Alexander's plans were small and pet... mater what be bad

lied congueted, he Would not have stopp there quity. not evens he

‘ha added Europe to Asi and te Britannic Islands to Eufope, but that be

‘Would always have seuched far beyond for something uaknows, ia

‘competion with inself in default of any ober iva.

a1)
‘Totake Amin astep further, the dominant influences of Alexander's ety ife—
Ins incredibly sucessful fiber and ell demanding masher —seem to have
fostered insecurities that often let him in compedition with himself, eparless of
‘whether an external challenge actually existed
‘THE GARDENS OF MIDAS (3432340 BC)

“Philip had noticed that his som was self-willed, and that while it was very
ical to influence btn by force, he could easily be guided toward his duty by
fn appeal wo eeason, and be therefore made pot of tying to persuade the Boy
‘athe han giving him eres” (P71). Philip may have had this in mind whe,
‘ter Alesunder had turned thiten in 343, Arist was selected axis utr
‘The authority and encyclopaedic Knowledge ofthe philosopher, it was hoped
‘might supply Alexander wath the “rudder's guidance andthe cu’srestalae™
eure at such a rete age (P72)

"Aso was in his early fortes athe de and hal not yt writen the gret
‘work tat ae the basis of his reputation today. Nevertheless, he had been an
futstinding student at Pao's Academy. and had undoubtedly” by this tie
‘tained some recognition for his intellectual abilies. Philip's selection,
however, may also have involved consilerions ‘ther than academic
credentials. Aristo’ father Nicomachus had been the family physician 10
“Amyatas I Philip's fabee and so Asse and Philp may have been boyhood
‘companions athe Macedonian cout

During the ensuing yeas, while Aristotle was studying in Athens, Philip
destroyed the young. philosopher's bithplace, Stginu while on his march
feustatd. However the Macedonian king pledged a reconstruction of the ity
fd restoration of is ciizemy if Aristotle would return to Pella to instuct
‘Alexander His offer, undoubtedly sweetened with handsome emoluments, wa
acceped without estaion

“Afsoe's cent resideny in Asia Minor may have been another factor in
Philip's choice. In 349, shorly before his death, Plato had chosen his ova
‘nephew instead of Aristotle to sueveed him as head ofthe Academy. Arista,


Page 40, Instance 0, Class: Text
psthaps eng himself sa vet of nepotism, accepted a position atthe court of
Hermia of Atumeus inthe Troud and ultimately became his son-in-a. This
fuler contolledtetory an the coast of Asia Minoe Dt could be of cat
strategic importance ding Philip's cootemplated invasion of the Persian
Epic

Philip's grand enterprise cenaialy roused as muchsuppostas he could marshal
fiom ASia and Arslle may have served as a ason of sods between the WO
fuer Tndeod, he may have been instumeatal ia the negotiation of an
‘Sgreement involving the tse of this Anatolian tetitory as a bridgebead forthe
‘Macedonian invasion. This possibility ended abruply in Ml. however, when
Herma as capt by agents ofthe Pesan king and tuified i Sua for his
‘weasonos comespondence with Philp.” The outcome for Aisle was more
Favorable, By ths time he had begun to orchestite Alexander's education in
‘Macedonia

PPlip sted Aristo and his tents t Mie. a ue retest with gotoes
ad shady walks inthe easem footilsof the Bermium mountain range, away
Hom the clamor and intrigue of the Macedonian court. Tas locale, sometimes
called the Precinct of the Nymphs, was stuted in an area refered to as the
Gardens of Midi. I included the entre wine-growing region surounding
‘modem Naoussa, where the legendary king Midas was supposed to have mixed
‘ine with stored water inorder to capture Silenus and Teun the secret of fe
from him In Aristotle's rendition ofthe tle, which ie preserved in fragment
an ensnatedSienus uur the uninspiring revelation tha Iie fall of git and
‘ia a misfortune” I later and move imaginative version, the hoodwinked
Silenus i eansomed by Dionysus, who promises an unthinking Midas that
everything he touches wil tr to gold

Plutarch infos us tht Alesander greatly admied Aristo and grew closer
to hima than to bis own ater, “forthe ne, Reuse oy, ba given him the gift
fife, bute eter had taught him how olive wel” (&.4), One can oay imaging
‘Alexander's exhilaration while sting atthe fet of a scholar whose wide
Interests matched his own boundless curiosity. A physician's so, Aristo was
‘ined in medicine and evidently pased these sil on 10 his most famous
pupil Laer in life Aleander wat kiow® to tend wo his solders" weunds
frscibe cues for fends, and advise doctor.” Arse aso seems to have
Tectured on zoology and bony at Mieza, and Alexander maintained a elon
intrest in these subjects. The spit of inquiry encouraged by Aviso suited
‘Alexander's pragmatic cast of ind. Be wary of sumptions, iso
auoned. Tica each ination a uigue and daw conlusions only afer ll of
{he evidence as en asembled and analyzed. Aetander would ultimately use
‘his traning, along wih his gift fr spontaneity, eo accomplish one incredible
utr victory after another.

‘The execition of Hermias occured while Alexander was sill in Aristote’s
company at Miez. It inspired te philosopher to compose a Hymn to Vite.”
In which he celebrated the aeveexcellnce) evidenced in his father-in- Ls ie
‘Athough foruted, Hermias reused to reveal anything that might have been


Page 41, Instance 0, Class: Text
damaging to hers, and is sid to have ased that his friends be told that he had
doe nothing to disgrace plosophy. Avistode paid wribue to this exceptional
‘iru by placing Herma tate company of heroes whose arte was universally
‘ecogize: Ajax, Heracles, the Diocur (Castor and Polydeucs) and Aches,

Arte, you whom the mortal ace wins by much

the fairest rey in ie,

forthe beat of yur form, maiden

itis an enviable tin Hellas both to die

fd to endute ol violent and unceasing.

‘On such fruits do you set the mind

‘sal ote morals, biter than gold,

find noble ancestor an languid-eed slp.

For Your sake Heracles, the son of Zeus,

and Leda's youths (Caso and Polydeuces]

‘ndred much in their deeds

‘hunting after your power

‘Through loging /pothos) for you, Achilles and Aj

came to the house of Hades,

Because ofthe gracious Beaty of your frm the musing

[Hemias of Atarneus forsook the sun's ays.

‘Therefore the Muses wil exalt him. famous in song fo

tis deeds and imma”

HEROIC MODELS

Aisoe's reference to Achilles was likely to draw special atention fom
‘Alexander, who belived tha this hero's blood ran through his ow veins
‘Alexander intended to live up to his ancestor's reputation, and encouraged
comparisons Between himself and his legendary forebeat. Inthe days belore
‘Micra, a seifsjed pedagogue named Lysimachus ingrtated himsell with
‘Alexander by addressing the boy as Achilles and Philip as Peleus, the hero's
‘mora ate, and eferting to hinselt as Phoenix, Achilles two” Lysimachus
‘would Iter accompany Alexander on his expedition to Asia, and. x king.
‘Alexander would isk his own fe co save this aging Materer whe called isn
‘stiles?

Homer's epic was a source of great inspiration 1 Alexander. As noted inthe
‘Preface, in Asa hei sido have slept witha copy of the Ma! (personally
annotated by A¥istode) underneath his plow" Aler discovering 4 precious
ske amoag tbe Persian King’s Belongings that had been pt ofthe spoils fom
fn important victory, Alexander asked the opinions of fis fiends conceming
‘what tae shouldbe made of ic!" He Ustenalstenvely to every suggestion
‘made, but inthe end decided wo deposi his copy of Homer's masterpzee inthe
ask, this designating tas his most valuable possesion, The Mad as


Page 41, Instance 3, Class: Text
Atistole's reference to Achilles was likely to draw special attention from
‘Alexander, who belived tha this hero's blood ran through his ow veins
‘Alexander intended to live up to his ancestor's reputation, and encouraged
comparisons Between himself and his legendary forebeat. Inthe days belore
Miezs, a self-styled pedagogue named Lysimachus ingratited himself with
‘Alexander by addressing the boy as Achilles and Philip as Peleus, the hero's
‘mora ate, and eferting to hinselt as Phoenix, Achilles two” Lysimachus
‘would Iter accompany Alexander on his expedition to Asia, and. x king.
‘Alexander would isk his own fe co save this aging Materer whe called isn
‘stiles?

Homer's epic was a source of great inspiration 1 Alexander. As noted inthe
Preface, in Asia he is said to have slept with copy of the Mad (persotlly
annotated by A¥istode) underneath his plow" Aler discovering 4 precious
‘ihket amos de Persian King’s Belongings tha had Been pst of the spas om
fn important victory, Alexander asked the opinions of fis fiends conceming
‘what tae shouldbe made of ic!" He Ustenalstenvely to every suggestion
‘made, but inthe end decided wo deposi his copy of Homer's masterpzee inthe
ask, this designating tas his most valuable possesion, The Mad as


Page 42, Instance 0, Class: Text
“Alexander's guide to the art of war, and its hero, Achilles, his exemplar of heroic

“Ain lls us ofan emolative“ivalty” with Achilles that ase eine.”
Echoes ofthe Homeric hwo may be bead thoughout Alexander's career: the
crossing af the Helespoat on the plans of Teo in his tle of warfare ad i
his reaction othe death of «beloved frend. The nythicized caer of Achilles
andthe "ives" of eer heroes provided made for he way ib which Alexander
‘wished tobe remembered. His scemingly impossible challenge wast ive a life
‘hat equalled oe surpassed ther Hetioalized patrns of havi.

“Acilles, the most influential of Alexander's mythological role models is
active, magnanimous, hones, and loyal. Oriatly tatu, courteous and
onsidorate eis also eligious,stong, swf, and courageous, a noble Watioe
‘whose are is matchless. Achilles choses a gloniousealy death oer alg Dut
‘venta fe.

“Though magnificent on the hutlefeld and undaunted in the fae of deat,
Achilles sess able o cope wih situations that he canna sesolve by violence
‘This Becomes most evident when his repulation pears teatencd, and he is
‘unable wo resolve the situation thyough free. Agamemnon’ ujas appropeiation
fof the Woman Buisis, Achilles” war prze, dives the offended hao to sef-
Tightous distraction. His ungovemuble anger becomes the focus ofthe Mad. He
Twists af ris, resents authority, and even boods over the fate he has
chosen foe himself When emation clouds his judgment, Achilles becomes the
“most fying ofall mea” (IL 1146), willing to take a no less an opponest
‘han Apollo in human guise. This noble waror is a great hew whase fear of
tisgrace overshadows mete death, The fact hate is aely responsible fr his
‘own destuction is obscured by his sucess and the intensity of his commitment

the proud beat

feel not terror

anit

fis own courage

that

kills

im

UL 1245-6)
Ie is only in the underwowld, after experiencing the tedium of etry, tha
‘Achilles questions the wisdom ofthe choice he has mae.””
“The ingloious monotony of death could be overcome, however, and it was


Page 42, Instance 3, Class: Text
Ie is only in the underwowld, after experiencing the tedium of etry, tha
‘Achilles questions the wisdom ofthe choice he has mae.””

"The inglovous meanotony of death could be overcome, however and it was
Heracles, anoter of Aletande's forebears, ho ad shown how it might be
accomplished. This ied hero, cited by Aristo in his "Hymn to Vat.”
‘ecame a god. He accomplished this dough avete and lboes bravely endured,
anther showed that ascaton Mount Olympus could be the reward fr one with


Page 43, Instance 0, Class: Text
4 sacred lineage who performed superhuman acts with regularity. Heracles
‘came what Pindar called heros thes, who bridged the gap between bero and
‘i. Heracles was worshipped throughout Macedonia Because of his special
‘elaonship wih the ruling fly.

‘The Macedonian royal family claimed descent fom the Temenid kings of
‘Argos who wate their ongins o Heracles" King Aleander worshiped his
lncestor as bth a eto and god. He is said to hae taken miniature slate of
Heracles on his great expedition, where t graced the royal ble without unduly
‘overshadowing the king?" Heracles was supposed to have traveled beyond the
arts encitcling Ocean inthe wes, and established th Pllas of Hetales at
Givaharen route. the eastern lit of bis own sey, Alexander erred
the construction ofa deen colosal towers in honor ofthe Twelve Immortals
(Gee Chapter 1). Tus, he bequeathed splendid counterpart to the weighty
‘mementos deposited by Heracles atthe other end of the worl

It could only

becalled

ozs,

Uni3825-6)

‘The god Dionysus was aso counted among the ancestors of Macedonian kings
tht fs name is absen fom Ariaote’s honor rll of the paul vinous
‘Thisomission sandy surpsing. Although thet are sporadic races of heroism
in the mythological ie of Dionysus—he tavel extensively and boasts Tung
as an epithets image isexpeslyunhcric i attude and action and his elt
‘came a refuge for those without honorble lineage or impressive deeds. Arian
‘as Alexandr tll is own men, rather aplogeialy. “Even Dionysus, more
ica god than Heracles, had not a es labour opeform” (5.263)

‘The most elaborate telerence to Dionysus in the Mad, where he appears
‘marginally and is ignored by the great wanio, desebes him as a eid
shivering wih emor who ret fom an enemy by diving ito the sur, where
‘Thetis clutches him oer bosom (UL 6135-7). What farcry he was fom the
sewbom Herscles, wh stanged serpents in his enib: and Achilles, who slew
Tons atthe age of 6. Skitsh and unpredictable, Dionysus was a god 10 be
«joled and enjoyed, especially in is guid semblane, and not on to be taken
alta seriously, at east by men of hezove disposition,

Butt the truth be tld

theres

no go greater

that

ae


Page 43, Instance 3, Class: Text
4 sscred lineage who performed superhuman acts with regularity. Heracles
‘came what Pindar called heros thes, who bridged the gap between bero and
‘i. Heracles was worshipped throughout Macedonia Because of his special
‘elaonship wih the ruling fly.

‘The Macedonian royal family claimed descent fom the Temenid kings of
‘Argos who wate their ongins o Heracles" King Aleander worshiped his
lncestor as bth a eto and god. He is said to hae taken miniature slate of
Heracles on his great expedition, where t graced the royal ble without unduly
‘overshadowing the king?" Heracles was supposed to have traveled beyond the
arts encitcling Ocean inthe wes, and established th Pllas of Hetales at
Givaharen route. the eastern lit of bis own sey, Alexander erred
the construction ofa deen colosal towers in honor ofthe Twelve Immortals
(Gee Chapter 1). Tus, he bequeathed splendid counterpart to the weighty
‘mementos deposited by Heracles atthe other end of the worl


Page 44, Instance 0, Class: Text
REGENT (340 BC)

‘Alexander's formal schooling came wan end in 340, when he was 16. At hat
‘ime Philip's dive eastward had brought him to the Hellespont the gateway 10
‘Asia. He Was thee to punish Byzantium and Pins fe thei tus to assist
‘i in campaign agunst the Athenian setle mens along the Thracian cost
Finding himsetf oo far removed Som Pella to gover effetivly, Philip decided
to place Alexander in chatge of the Royal Seal, and so apeitid him tegen.
‘This fest opportunity to act a a ruler Was testament (0 the time and elf
Plilip had spent an his sos grooming, and Alexander eapely accepted the
sespoasibiiy

Th Philip's absence the Mae, a beligereat Thracian tbe, rebelled agaist
‘Macedonian overlondship" Aletander pomp a punitive expedition othe
Upper Symon, where he subdued the rebels capture ther center of operations,
and scestblished ia a Macedonian colony. He ten clled it Alexandsopolis i
Imitation of similar situation to yeats earlier when his far had founded
Plilippopolis in Thrace. This was the fist city Alexander named ae himself
and would not be the ast

1. aha esi

‘wien Lam dead

Now

Tnust

‘win excellent glory

dis.21)

Philip, after unsuccssflatempss to capture Byzantium and Perntus, headed
‘omit Toward the Danube, hoping for a mote profitable encounter with the
‘eythane. At some pot Alexandet, with Anipatr remaining bein s tegen,
‘was summoned to join Philp andthe main body of tbe amy. He no doubt
‘ought fresh woops. but perhaps more important was tat he was given the
‘opportunity to acquze move experience ia the at of Wa unde the dzeton of &

"This tine Philp’ effons were rewarded with victory and an impressive
amount of booty. During his reun, however, the Macedonian free was
‘Survey the fee Taallins. This Thracian tie seized Philips eate and
Slates, and gave the king a severe leg wound tht left him temporaily
“immobilized and permanently lame. Around this tne Alesander i Said to have
courageously saved Philips life i bate.” In 338, after they had overcome
‘Theban and Athenian resiance at Chacronea, Macedonian ascendancy would be
salishe over most of Gece.

‘THE BATTLE OF CHAERONEA (838 BC)

‘The role assigned to Alexander at Chactonea confined his status as crown
‘ince ad spoke of Philip's coaflence ia his son's ality to Tead me. This


Page 44, Instance 3, Class: Text
REGENT (340 BC)

‘Alexander's formal schooling came wan end in 340, when he was 16. At hat
‘ime Philip's dive eastward had brought him to the Hellespont the gateway 10
‘Asia. He Was thee to punish Byzantium and Pins fe thei tus to assist
‘i in campaign agunst the Athenian setle mens along the Thracian cost
Finding himsetf oo far removed Som Pella to gover effetivly, Philip decided
to place Alexander in chatge of the Royal Seal, and so apeitid him tegen.
‘This fest opportunity to act a a ruler Was testament (0 the time and elf
Plilip had spent an his sos grooming, and Alexander eapely accepted the
sespoasibiiy

Th Philip's absence the Mae, a beligereat Thracian tbe, rebelled agaist
Macedonian overlordship." Alexandr romp eda punitve expedition tothe
Upper Symon, where he subdued the rebels capture ther center of operations,
san reestablished ita a Macedonian colony, He then called it Alxandopolis
ination ofa similar station two year cari when his father had founded
Plilippopolis in Thrace. This was the fist city Alexander named ae himself


Page 45, Instance 1, Class: Text
=
tar
66)

(One thowsand Athenians fl at Chetoncs nd 2000 more wee capa.”
Dennen, wo Hal ben fainting agai Phip ine 38) and waning
Poplin, ad fom the disaster at Chaconen The nabitants of Ans
Eredinmeher forte wor

Philip's into of business, weve, was to celbeate his tum. He
‘ucome He revanled thse who had dsinguised themselves, acids, no
{babe Aleandt Dion isu at afer dinner, Pip, having dunk fea
ike, wiih had tr eg inthe ral Dionysia wih his comer th
celeron of he victory (and) pra though he mit fbi apie, jing
‘ile tinea the mines te laces me" (1887.1

Insta of destroying Athens, Pip et home on ofthe prisoners, Dem
tocduont specs Geay an an lace, Thebes wos puns fer sce
CChactoea, but Athens was spared. Athenian captives were to he setae fo
‘Atco witout ans, snd Macedonian woop woul nt et fot on Acs
‘The king's only “eqst” was for an allnc, and this was agreed 10 with
rn bes Abe ry


Page 45, Instance 2, Class: Text
city-states (other than Sparta). vietory here was also 2 prerequisite forthe
‘Coping of war against the Great Rig of Pes, The nd Athen provide he

"the plana Charon was for Philp t ea his infantry onthe sigh he
Companion Cavalry othe le was tsraced to lad the deve charge
‘spun theory's ight wing a soon asthe ako th Thun Sate Band was
‘Xponcd by Philip's manewer The Sacred Band. fabled unit of 300 crack
Snfanymen, waste Rea of the Ges ale fers

Phils plan worked well Atte crcl moment Alexander, is easton
sowing his ahr hi prowor and ieling to none wil o win ceeded
In ptring te sold ont of te enemy linking down many "(D 1636.)
But Philip joined inthe vout “wel in font and ot conceding eit forthe
istry evento Aletanee(D.1886), Nomthle, i was Pps son and the
Companion Cavalry who dslvered he coup de rice at Chasronen by
Sonilating the Sacto Band" Aleander, 8 yeas fae, was a hx,

‘winning fry own et

peasy

ad

ise

ther

i 6.446)


Page 46, Instance 0, Class: Text
Philip may have been equally relieved, for his re objective in Gesce was to
cesublish 4 general peace that would enable him to march om Asia without
‘Soncerm about the thea of inminent eellion in Europe, othe need to malta
4 Significant force there His plan was to embusk for Asia on a Panellnic
rade with autborization fan a Teague, Which all Grok states would be
“invited” to join, With mandate fo the so-called Corina League and a
sepresetative contingent fis woops, who also served as hostages Philip would
tevome the agent of retbuton forthe Persian saree on the Acropolis in 480
‘Even Philip, devout eyic, would have fund it dificult to sponsor this ition
if in victory, be had Weated Athens ina manner reminiscent of the Persia,
‘There is every feison fo believe tat Philip, who appreciated Gresk cule,
‘wished toe acepted by the Grek word rather than be viewed asthe iasrument
ofits destruction The supemacy be had established at Chucroes afforded im.
‘the opportunity to display magnaniity and enjoy a Nesting moment of Athenian
‘rate, if not respect A statue of the benevolent victor Was efeted in the
‘gor of Athens, and Philip and Alexander were granted Athenian citizenship"

ATHENS (38 BC)

Philip decided not to conduct the negotiations in person. Instead, i was
‘Alexander and Antpatr who would escort the ashes ofthe ded Athenians back
to thoi native city." The king may have surmised tht his son would make
‘eter impression in Athens. Pip himself was covered with scts fom head 1
toe, had an empty socket instead ofa sight ee, and limped ona maimed lg!"
He would have served as-a caricature of the mot unflatering Athenian
assunpions about Macedonians

Despite the fact ha Macedonians were of Grock stock, most Greeks perceived
ther fo be barbs," Macedonian aristocrats were known for thet hunting.
Fighting. gambling. and dsinking. twas said by the Greoks that a Macedonian
‘oblenan was not ened to elie st his own symposium unl be had Killed
‘wild oat" and that « Macedoaian could noc wear belt until he had Kile
other man in bt"

Macedonian aristocrats spoke Atic Geok in Philip's day, but their naive
tongue, although Greek, was incompechensble to an Athenian." Grek poets
pines, and pllosopbers ad heen lured to ella since the reign of the
Macedonian king Archelaus (413-399) Socrates hal declined the invitation,
and Plato's name is not to be found inthe guest register atthe cout! The
‘hetorician Thvasymachus cspred the general seaumeat “Shall we, being
Greeks, be slives to Atchelau, a barbarian?" Given ths revi studs,
‘most Athenians in the fourth century probably agreed with Demostienes
‘onouncement tat he [Philip] isnot 4} Greek, nor eae to the Geeks"

"Yet Alexandr did fit the Greck moll. He was atactive, youthful, courteous
and inelligen, and he had been student of Arstl, the most celebrated
[oduct of Plato's Academy. Alexander was also ingustive and knowledgeable
Fie may have suprised the Atbenians wath tah his questions and his polished


Page 47, Instance 0, Class: Text
semarks, He was capable of capturing the atention of the local sages by reciting
‘hscure quotations from Homer or the Ati tagedians, and bs devotion 10
‘Athen, the patton godess oftheir iy, mist have impresed even the most
‘superiious of his hast

"These actions were nt just for show, however. Athena payed major oe in
the religious observances ofthe Macedonian royal family. As king Alexander
‘Would sacrifice wo Athena with impessve epuaiy." He also held comets i
thon ofthe godess, ult altar in her name, dedicated temple to her, and
Inter sailed to Athen t Try. "Thee he exchanged his amo for equipment
sid to have been used during the Trojan Wat

Hud Alexander peered over the southem slope of the Acropolis, be would
certainly have sen the ancient sine of Dion and the theater attached 1 it
‘Alexander’ appetite for drama had been cultivated by Aritte, who claimed
thatthe origins of “the tape pleasure” were found in te dithyramb, a choral
song to Dionysus. Subjects tlating diced to Dionysus, howeves, ztely
povided a focus for waged. Instead, men and women of ese statue were
‘cpicted on sage in 4 pageant of unfolding tension and conflict. Iwas the
members ofthe audience who were transfered into the Dionysia: realm by
tchanging thei on elt for heated usin.

‘Late, as king, Alexander patonized playwrights, sponsored theaica
competitions, and inpoted toupes of ator fom the Dionyiae guild Far
‘vay in Pera, Alexander asked his esurer Harals to send him something 1
‘ead, Hapals, whe presumably knew Alesander's taste in rare, packaged
the plays of Acscylin, Sopbocks, and Euripides, along with some dtyrambic
pocty and Pits” History of Silly. and set them off to his king (P83),

“Alexander ad special intrest in tages. He quod Eupides on 4 number
cof wccasons." and this may reflect peterene. Euppies was bold and
‘igi a master of lsion, suprise and the grand gesture. His psychological
Tangs’ were Keen, and he recognized emotion as a silent partner ia the
inmelectual proces. Euripides etched a tableau of private fury raging beneath
bli decotum, and denigrated heroes who justified their actions by distorting
fhe truth. He wrote: "You ate mad, you who seek glory in combs, among
‘weapons of war thinking in your ignorance to find a cute for burn misery
there” (Hel 1131-4),

"While in bens as an ambassador, Alexander surely heat the stry of bow
the Persian King Nerns bad stolen the statues ofthe tran slayer, Harmodias
and Afstogeton, and had wanspoted them back to Susa Years ltt, when
“Alexander occupied the Posian apt, he veuieved these statues and arranged 19
fhve them returned to Athens. He would lar, however, tat elegant gestures
ofthis type would not alter Athenian hostility toward him. Some Athenians
‘urposefuly remembered Chaerones andthe eizens who perished thee, and
‘hose to ignore the fact tat ther world ad changed now that Macedonian
{influence could be felt throughout Hellas.


Page 48, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘THE WEDDING OF PHILIP Il AND CLEOPATRA (337
Be)

‘Afr Chacronea, Philip autbovized the constuction of 4 solos (cvelar
‘uilding) at Olympia called the Phiippeum. This stuetue resembled its
counterpart at Delphi and would eventually encieleporvait sates of Philip
‘Olympiss, Alexandr, and Philips parents (Anatas ML and Euryice). This
statu group Was sculpted in gold and vor. moda usualy reserved fo the gods,
land the sculptor was the Athenian Leochates. whose work would late be
‘omnnissoned by Alexandr" Soon afer the crginl work nthe tholos bad
begun, however, the elationsip between Philip, Olympis, and. Alexander
‘would undergo s profound alteration,

Philip etumed to Pella in the sping of 337. Once agin he celebrated
‘mariage. Since he had accumulated wives on argulr bass, Pilip may aever
‘have atiipated the uproar that followed his mage to this new wile. The
‘biographer Satyr paces this mariage ina pevaleategory: “Afterall these
‘Women he maried Cleopatra felled Euydice By Asian 3.63), with whom be
‘had fallen in love and by binging her home to supplant Olympia, he new the
tie couse of his life into ute confusion" Aran stats unequivocally that
“there was lack of confidence between Alexander and Philip afte Philip ook
Eurydice wo wife, and disgraced Olympias, the moter of Alexande” (3.63).

[He disbonoured

his own wife

ay

other

UL 9.480-1)
“The wedding was boisterous affair. Alexander was present Olympias was not
In Plutarch's version ofthe feat, Atalus, the inotiated uncle of the bide,
‘aise his eup and appealed 10 the gods for a leptimate het to the tone
‘Alexander the crown peice leaped to his feet shouting, "Villain do you take
‘me fora basta, then?” (9.8) Hehused his dking cup. «syphios, at the
Speaker. Philp. who was quite drunk, dew his swoud and lunged at his
pparenly sober son, only to stumble and spaw! headlong on the flo.
‘Alexander is reported to have looked down contempuusly at his father and
emurked: “Hew isthe man who Was making ready 0 cos fom Euope to
‘Asa, and who cannot even ess from ane table to anather without losing his
balance" 9.10),

“Then Look itiato my mind

tocuthim down

‘with te sharp bronze

bout some one ofthe immortals

checked my anger

‘reminding me of rumour


Page 48, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘THE WEDDING OF PHILIP I AND CLEOPATRA (337
Be)

‘Afr Chacronea, Philip autbovized the constuction of 4 solos (cvelar
‘uilding) at Olympia called the Phiippeum. This stuetue resembled its
counterpart at Delphi and would eventually encieleporvait sates of Philip
‘Olympiss, Alexandr, and Philips parents (Anatas ML and Euryice). This
statu group Was sculpted in gold and vor. moda usualy reserved fo the gods,
land the sculptor was the Athenian Leochates. whose work would late be
‘omnnissoned by Alexandr" Soon afer the crginl work nthe tholos bad
begun, however, the elationsip between Philip, Olympis, and. Alexander
‘would undergo s profound alteration,

Philip retuned to Pella inthe spring of 337. Once again he celebrated a
‘mariage. Since he ha accumulated wives on a regular basis Philip may never
‘have atiipated the uproar that followed his mage to this new wile. The
‘biographer Satyr paces this mariage ina pevaleategory: “Afterall these
‘women he macied Cleopatra felled Eurydice by Aran (2.65), with whom be
‘had fallen in love and by binging her home to supplant Olympia, he new the
tie couse of his life into ute confusion" Aran stats unequivocally that
“there was lack of confidence between Alexander and Philip afte Philip ook
Eurydice wo wife, and disgraced Olympias, the moter of Alexande” (3.63).

{He} dishonoured


Page 49, Instance 0, Class: Text
and men's maledictions repeated

hail

might oe

teealled

paride

UL 9488-61)

‘This whole episode was nightmare for Alexander and Olympias. The
derogatory remarks of Atalus Were totally unsccepabl, abd Philips Faure 19
‘efend Alexander's hoaoe was hunting The king had drawn his sword. but
Instead of using itt attack the man sputering insults, he bad tamed the weapon
fon his own soa. In his besoued state, Philp may have held Alexander
‘responsible forthe disruption of the clebetion. Whatever the eas, the king
‘must have awakened the next day in euafl disquiet over the situation be bad
created

"Eve ifthe occasion had heen devoid of deunkehstronics, Olympas would
have fet teatened by this wedding. She had resigned herself wo several other
‘ariages over the previous twenty oF so yes, poehaps Because the necessity of
ach could he explained in emns of pressing olical considerations. Until now
however, the other wives were ako considered to be foreigner, and they
Jpobubly enjoyed litle or no suppor at cour. These vivals may have been
‘sactng, but remained pliically innocuous unless they produced a eal
tal child’ None did

Pllip's new bide, Cleopatra, however, was a fullblooded: Macedonian
astorat. This perhaps shrpeacd the Bite of her ucl’s provocative toast tthe
‘Wedding. Shes described by Puch asa gel with whom Philip ad fallen in
Tove and whom be had decided to mare, although she was fr foo young foe
‘im (0.6) Philip was 46 and Cleopatea was perhaps thi years is uo.

‘While tise that Philip's mother was half Hiya. be had proved helt
to bea “Benuine Macedonian” Olympias, however, was not and her enemies
‘robulysaW hora an interloper on Macedonian soi. Alexander's on abies,
recoci and station must so hve eae him fae sate of envy and ent
‘One might infer from Atal” sur a the wedding that it may have teen
fashionable to refer wo the “exceptional” (Le, non-Macedonian) character of
Alexander in an uscomplimeairy. way. In sich eases his ess aeactive
‘haracterines were probably tite to his mete,

Tnumediatsy after the alecation this father's welling, Alexander collected
tis mother and headed for Macedooi's western frontier. Olym pss. was
oposite in Epirus at her bothers court Alexander the teaelled noe to ake
‘efuge withthe Iiyrans This new sination wis potentially dangerous for
‘other and son, bu also fr Philip. Olympia, for instance, might prevail upon
‘or brother to defend the family's honor and avenge the outrageous isu to
‘hich she ad been subjected. Also, with his customary astuteness, Alexander


Page 50, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘had placed himself among Macedonia's stalwart enemies, where he was in a
‘Postion ifmecessay, o launch an invasion agaist Pip.

‘What prompted Philip o follow «course of action tit guaranteed Olympia
ost and ised the alienation of his son and successor? As noted above,
Plutarch sas simply that Pip fll ia love with Cleopata,Satyeus, who, tay
te recalled, emphasized politcal considerations when dicussing Pips other
‘tages, aso speaks of love inthis instance.” Ie may’ be that despite, of
ocause of, the marked dsp in age between the to, Philp became smite
by an atractive younger Woman. Eros, it Was said, Toosens the limbs and
lamages the mind and Philp may well have boon the victim of Eros i this ese

Tis dificult to imagine Plip relying exclusively on his emotions. however.
in mater aflecting afsis f state a uch acide stage i is cater. He was 3
‘methoical planet and thee was one aspect af the forthcoming invasion of
‘Asa that he was unlikely to ignore. This very consideration may have convinced
‘im ofthe necessity ofthis secminglyil-avised mariage. Aleandee would not
have accepted anoter regency while glory of untold mapnitude awaited isn in
‘Asia, and Philp, under the cecumstances, would never have let hn behind
Plilip and Aleander would cross the Hellespont together and while they were
‘both renowned for courage, both also ook unnocesaty sk in bate. What if
‘ether of them survived the invasion? In sch a scenario civil war would have
‘een likely in Macedonia unless Philip bad produced another legitimate hit 19
the tvone before his departure. A thoroughved Macedonian boy. patiulaly
fone fathered by the man who had unified Macedonia and: brought it 10
‘eeincnce, would hep ia averting such tame

Despite th underying reasons forthe mariage itis easonable to assume that
Philp never anticipated this imbrogio because ofthe steps he took to amelie
the station. Demaratus of Corinth, who bad acquired Bucepbals for Alexander
visited Pella while the King’s son was sll dwelling anong the Mlyrians."° When,
Prilip asked about faite in Groce, Demarutus answered: Iisa very well for
‘you to show so much concem forthe afais of Greece, Philip, How about the
‘sharmony you kave brought about in your own household? (9.13), Philip
‘espoaded to this rebuke by askiag Dears to g0 to Mia and negotiate
‘Alexander's tur,

‘Alexander aid show reluctance in eeturming to Macedonia, but Demaraus
finaly sucecedd with his entreaties and Alexander retumed before the yea 337
cnded.™ Philip must have assured Aleander inno uncertain ets tht he Was
Sl the Beir fo the done. As devoted at he was to his tet though,
‘Alexander appacaly had to abandon her cause forthe time being since abe
‘emained, it coms, in Epis. Php peesunably had o intention of subjecting
‘is now wife to any of Olympia” invective, and although an acoed ad been
‘cached between father and son, is tentative nature would soon be puto the test.


Page 51, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘THE PIXODARUS AFFAIR (336 BC)

Philip's plans for his invasion of Asia continued to gain momentum, On the
Aiplemate level he eeceived overtures for a allance fom Prxodarus of Catia, 8
ddynast in southern Asia Mino.” The likelihood ofa full-scale Macedonian
{invasion had encouraged Pixodans, whose sarapy Was part of the Persian
Empce to scek an independent allance with Philip. Preliminary discussions
‘evlved around the amangement of 4 mariage between the sarap's daughter
and Philip'sson Arhidacus

“Alexander reacted to this prospect with considerable dismay. He apparently
‘came convinced thatthe maniage was of far greater importance than Philip
saw it wo disclose, and was persuaded, pedaps by Olympis and his close
frends, that it signified Arhidseus replacement of him a heir pare.

And now my rie

you teaten

inperson

tostip

ftom me

LLts))

‘An alamed Alexander seat 4 ceruin Thess! to engage in private
‘negotiations with Pxodars. Thessalus was a prominent actor who, mote Han
nee, had heen awarded fist pize at the Drona in Athens. Like Philp,
‘Alexander was employing an actor in diplomatic capacity. Thesis was
Jnsiced to persuade Ptodaus to sist upon Alexander as the bidegsoom i
any dynastic mariage. Philp became infuriated when informed of what his son
thd done: “When Philip discovered ths, he went to Alexander's room, taking
‘with him Philos he son of Putnenio, one ofthe prince's companions. Tere be
Scolded his son and angily reproached him foe behaving so ignbly abd so
‘unworthy of his position as to wish to musty the daughter of mere Caran,
‘who was na mote than the slave of barbarian king” (10.3),

How I wish

tis moment

the eath

sight

open

‘beneath

kim

6281-2)

Philip may have been informed of Alexander's actives by Panmenio, who
‘would ave Ieamed aout them in Asis Miner, or by his soa, Pilots. ta any
event, Philos was thereto hear the charge and witness the chastsement. This
‘whole business must have boon humiliating for Alexander, discomforting for


Page 51, Instance 3, Class: Text
1.161)

‘An alamed Alexander seat 4 ceruin Thess! to engage in private
‘negotiations with Pxodars. Thessalus was a prominent actor who, mote Han
nee, had heen awarded fist pize at the Drona in Athens. Like Philp,
‘Alexander was employing an actor in diplomatic capacity. Thesis was
Jnsiced to persuade Ptodaus to sist upon Alexander as the bidegsoom i
any dynastic mariage. Philp became infuriated when informed of what his son
thd done: “When Philip discovered ths, he went to Alexander's room, taking
‘with him Philos he son of Putnenio, one ofthe prince's companions. Tere be
Scolded his son and angily reproached him foe behaving so ignbly abd so
‘unworthy of his position as to wish to musty the daughter of mere Caran,
‘who was na mote than the slave of barbarian king” (10.3),


Page 52, Instance 0, Class: Text
Plots and exasperating for Pip. Bu it was more tha an embarassment and
‘source of consemation: Alexander's unauthorized diplomacy could very well
have been intrpeted as high weason "I Philip hal ever intended to femave
‘Alexander ax hit inbeito, this station would hve presented hin with a golden
‘opportunity to doo.

Philip was deeply concemed about both his son's anxiety and his apparent
‘uneliabliy. ba this Wasa condition for which the father had to bear Some of
the responsibility. Pip had always enjoyed confusing hers about bis Wu
Jtenions, Now he had mised his own son, and he was confronted wih that
sons unfathomable behave.

“The king wrote to Corinth demanding tat the acto Alexander had sent 10
‘Caria be byought back to Macedonia in chains a a tflection ofthe seriousness
‘with which he viewed this man’s mission. Philip also sea several of Alexander's
closest fends—notbly Haralus, Neaehus and Ptolemy — inc exile a6 a eslt
fof their collision in the Pixodana aff! Later Thessaly would join
‘Alexander on bis Asian expedition, partcipaing i tragic comtests and enjoying
‘Special consideration and grate rr bis patton forthe dangerous undertaking
(on behalf ofthe woubled piace. After his faer's death, Alevander called al of
Ii exld friends and elevated each of them oun influcail postion,

By 336 Alexander's clique of fiends had also become a source of concen to
Philp. Itwas tobe expected, of couse hat Alexander would develop g20up of
close associates who enjoyed special elationships with him. His charisma and
fetonal valor assured such associations. Philp himself Was par responsible
forks son's popularity tough his own willagnes o share the limelight with
him. ‘The very special loyalty that Alexander evoked in his companions
‘wever, may have been more than his fatber ba anticipated or desired. ln fat
their steadfast alleplance may have heen construed y Philip asa eat. His
son's entourage may also have distressed Philip because i seemed prematurely
{oil in complexion and functon; Alexander was afer all only the cow prince,
othe king

Plutarch suggests that Alexander hal been poorly avised by both his mother
“and his fends during the ixodars affair (101). As we shal se, this isnot
the only occasion when Alexander was depicted as following the bal advice of
fis frends with troublesome resus. While competing for his favor each was
‘ighly sensitive wo anything that might be perceived ay athneat ad was equally
anaious for any opportunity to display his owa idly and usefulness!
“Ahough the poor counsel refered ton the sources can often be explained ss &
‘device onthe put of apologists to absolve Alexander of complete ble fr his
‘mistakes, ebough of his ents allode to it for itt Warrant consideration
‘Alexander's tends may actually have played on his insecuries in onder to da
‘itenton to their own vigilance and devotion to him. Leonats, Perdceas, and
“Atlus! (not Cleopaa's uncle later Perdiceas’brdber-n-law) can be counted
‘among those close, personal icnds who, for whatever teasoa, Were not exiled
‘The fist evo would figure prominently in Alexanders Iter exploits and plan.


Page 53, Instance 0, Class: Text
Leonnats was 4 member of Alexander's intr citcle of fiends and later
‘came one of his Royal Bodyguards, a elite corps of seven men whe guarded
the King He served fur well on numcrus accastns, elped bing a conspiracy
to mutder Alexander to the king's attention in 327. risked his oman life save
‘Alexander's in 325, and was awarded golden crown for distinguished service
324, Podiceas, another member ofthe king's inner ctl, eventually became a
Royal Bodyguud a well He oo played an inptant cole in response to a plot
‘gaint Aletundr’ le. The name Pevdcca appears on list of fends at
‘Whose houses Aleuander drank ding the last yea of his life in Ecatan, and he
is also conde as having been presen st Alexander's st drinking party. While
‘valting death Alexander handed his royal rng over to Peices fo ensue hat
‘he kings business would comiue to he conducted

PIhlots wat deawa into the Piodaus episode but escaped banishment
pethaps Because it might have been impadent forthe king wo discipline Pilots
Scverely at this juncture. Ifthe general's soa had boen privy 10 Alexander's
dealings, he may have been pardoned fr his ole as an informer or because his
Tater Pazmeno was instumental in Philips ined plans. Moreover, should
further ‘mibundestandings have developed between Philp and Alexander
concerning thei respective ights and privileges, Pilots could be called upon
‘quote Philip's admonitions to his son by chapter and vers. In any event,
Pros’ role in hia, whatever ena, would not have endeared im 10
Alexander

Tn the end, Prodas of Caria decided to forsake al ffs to develop &
‘approchement with Philip. Realizing that any arrangements made under these
‘uneasy ctcumstances might ultimately be hazardous, Pears elected 10 tow
‘il in with Dai Hand the ne Persian regime Philips reconciliation with
‘Alexander however, which had been agile om the outset, soon began show
Further signs of deterioration

‘THE ASSASSINATION OF PHILIP 11 (336 BC)
‘A series of violent incidents, which were eventually flt atthe very highest
ievely ocurred at the Macedonian court around this time. deslusy
homosexuality, sicde, drunkenness, revenge, rape, and assassination were
among the elemeats involved in this dram tha Would alle the couse of
‘Alexander’ life:™* Diodonis describes the lurid pelude to thse evens

‘There was a Macedonian Patsanias who came of family from the dst

Ost, He [was a todygua ofthe king [Philip and was beloved by hit

‘ecatee of his eau When he saw that the king. was becoming

enamoued of another Passanias (2 man ofthe same name as hinsel), be

Ssddesed him with abusive. language, accusing him of ‘being

‘hermaphrodite and prompt to accept the amorous advances of any ho

‘wished, Unable to endure such an isu the ter kept silent for the de,

‘but, fer confiding to Atlus, one of bis ren, what he proposed od,


Page 54, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘he brought about his own death voluntarily and in a spectacular fashion.
Fr few dag aller hss Php was engaged ia tae with Pers
Xing of te Myris, Patan stepped into hin and eeing on
dsb all te blows dusted at the King so mt is death, The inch
‘ws widely dctsod and Aas (he sme taht whom Alexander a
flung his typos). who was a mtaber of the cout icles influetal
‘ie Lng tod test Pass to one ad wen he ha pid
Tima unk with wrnced wine, handed his nconcous Body ote 10
chrged Ata efor the ing with he outage. Philip she is age
the barbariy of he act ut dd ot win punish Aa at a tine
‘cate of hi lationship, and Became At’ avier were needed
sient. He was the nephew [actly ul] ofthe Cleopats who the
‘ny ta jos mre a new wile edb ad ben slo a3 general
as Fr these ressons he King ted wo oli the righcous ager of
im in honour among the bays

(06933-9)

‘White all ofthis was unoling Pip was consataing 0 his plans for dhe
‘nvasion ofthe Persian Empie To he sping of 36 be set an advance force of
TOan0 woop asset Helkspont dy Parmens hs finest gener sa
‘Aounders adversary Als 2 popu and capale command, vi Bal
‘econ become Pameni'ssobirty."" The cating was anppoted, snd he
Invading fnces quickly etbished tir Wdgetead in As News of tei
[wogre reed te spite and expelaons of everyone Pella, ae, tort
pon him, angel to voto only spay and evaveness om the ing
Philip tepals angich with oily prometion but Pasa
found his abe nau ecompnse fr th ua he ad saffeed The

Philip's adoithanding of another oblemat situation however, speared to
te something uf coup dla The Upon of Epis whose sy could
‘eacely be sfonde a iis tine, wae in question tocase of Olympas’
dine. Pp ingeniously cid tae th chcunaancs by eeting
his dager, Cleopatra n mariage to her uncle Alexandra Epis (Olympia
woe

You ate old hand


Page 55, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The Lng ofthe Molosians would find it ical to refuse this bewothal without
offending Pip and sucha masiage must have seemed an atactvealtmative
{o war with Pip of Macedon. The young Epos king had infact secured his
tvone tough te efforts of Philip and thei lationship had been anything but
stile"

‘Olympias may have cea this mariage as py on Philip's parvo depeive ee
‘of the meapon of revenge thither brother might sponsor: Tough her bother
she had hoped to fegain her posion in Macedonia Nonetheless, it was
conecivable that the ent scenario might in the eb yield gencrous retwns
‘Should anything happen to Philip afer the wedding. er son would predictably
succeed his far a the Macedonian king, and her daughter and brother Would
fle in Epins, Olympias would thus emerge as the most powerful and
‘restglous woman nthe Greek speaking world

Th the meantime, Philp. seking divine approbation, inguired at Delphi
concerning the prospects of his tuminenttvastn, The oracle, hough whem
“Apollo. god favored by Php, was presumed 1 speak, announce: "Weeahed
{athe bull-Alis done. There is avo the one who willsmitehin”(D.16 91.2) Philip
considered the answer ambiguous. Assuming tht the bull symbolized Persia,
However. "he thought thatthe gos suppowted him and.chat Asia would be
‘made captive under the hands ofthe Macedonians" (D.1691.,

"The wedding between Alexander of Epis and Cleopatra ook place at Aepae
luving dhe autumn of 336. Ie was designed wo serve as glaious overture to
Philip's departure for Asia, This event was amanged to celbnte his own,
‘upatlleld succes as well as his daughter's mariage Magnificent sacrifices to
{he gods and lavish enteraiaments were prepared and Pap was presented With
golden crowns by epresenaives ofthe Greek ists. The Athenian herald
‘while ofeing his gift to the king, proclaimed ominously that anyone who dred
plo against Philip would he denied sancary in Athens and would be delivered
{fo Macedonia

Diodorus tll ws that on the fist day’ of the festivities, Pip, a he state
‘rangutondeed an actor by the name of Neopolemus to quote verses apropos
ofthe upcoming campaign"! Neoptolemus. Who Was thinking of the Persan
ing spoke the following prescient words

‘Your thoughts each higher than the ai

‘You dream of wide field’ cultivation

‘The homes you plan surpass he homes

‘That men have Enown, But you doe

Guiding your lite afar

But one there is whol cach the wi

‘Who goes away obscured in gloom,

‘Ad suds, unscen overtakes

A ane OTE


Page 56, Instance 0, Class: Text
twelve gods “sdomed with a dazzling show of wealth to strike awe in the
Teholder” were escorted ino the theater with pomp and circumstance. The
assembled dignitaries were then surprised by the appearance of 4 huseeath
Statue, one of Philip himself, "suitable for ago.” Though this staring geste,
Diodonus claimed, “the king exhibited himself entvoned among the twelve
sods (16925),

fe those who aspire

‘who outange

the ints

of

(a. 396)

“The sates proceed Philip oto the these. His dyguards were instructed 19
follow him ata distance. This would enhance the drama and serve as graphic
sebutal othe charges hat he was tran, since tyrants customarily srTounded
‘themselves with bodyguads. Dressed in a white cloak, Philip entered the heater
accompanied by the two Alotandes, his son and his new soninlaw."= While
Piilip bated momentarily at theenuance to the ans, one of bis ova
‘adyguas dew dagger and without waming rushed atthe King. Hs dagger
thrust forwad. Ht peneuated the King's is and lle hi stay

"The bodyguard was Pausanis. He ad finaly avenged hinslf on the king fr
the injusties be had suffered, Pausanias ran toward the ity gates, where horses
‘nd een stationed wo facilitate is escape, but is bos became enshaed na Vine
‘oot. He fll and several of his pursuers immediately skewered his body with
{eli Such was the end of Philip. who had made hinsel th greatest ofthe
‘Kings in Europe ia is ime, and because of the extent of his Kingdom had made
‘himself toned companion ofthe welve gods” (D.1695.),

Philip way dead. but had be been killed by a lone assassin for personal
seurbuton?™™ Adsl, for one, said. yes: "Philip. too, was attached by
Pausanias because be permitted him o be isle by Ataus and his ends"
‘Aisle had nothing further wo say about the event This ean reference is found
in a dscusion of rulers who were killed for personal rather than politcal
‘eaons, One might argue tht further elaboration would have obscured the point
‘he was atlempting to make. More cynical observers might say. however, that


Page 56, Instance 2, Class: Text
Death, morals source of many woes.
(16923)

Diodonus continues: “Fall the drinking was over andthe tt ofthe games se
forthe following day” (16925). The guests gathered in the theater at suns and
fan impressive procession war formed on the grounds outside. Statues of the
twelve gods “adorned with a dazzling show of wealth 10 suike ave in the
Teholder” were escorted ino the theater with pomp and circumstance. The
assembled dignitaries were then surprised by the appearance of 4 huseeath
Statue, one of Philip himself, "suitable for ago.” Though this staring geste,
Diodonus claimed, “the king exhibited himself entvoned among the twelve
‘gods (16.925)


Page 57, Instance 0, Class: Text
Arise, who enjoyed Macedonian patronage, chose to say a litle as possible
‘shout an unsavory event that might place his benefactors in an unfavorable ight

Diodonis, who offers no evidence to contradict Arto, pictures Passnias
‘ussing his wrath and yeaming fr revenge “not ony onthe one who had dane
‘im wiong, but also onthe one who failed io avenge hi” (1694.1), Diodorus
asserts that Pausanias was inadvertently encouraged to commit regicide by his
{utor Hermoctaes. This sophist reportedly answered Pausanias’ question about
‘how one might become famous by saying “tat t would be by killing the ane
‘who had accomplished mos for usa lng as he was emorbere, 0 lng his
slajer would be emesbered als" (1694.1.

“Oiber ancien authorities insist that Pausanis was a mere instrument inthe
‘hands of mote powerful individuals who harnessed his reseatments to serve their
‘own ends. Plafch sates that when Philp was slain by Pausanias,"t Was
COlympias who was chiefly blamed for the assassination, beease she was
televed to have encouraged the young man and incited him to take his evenge™
(104), Justin declares that Ii even believed that he [Pausanias] was instigated
to the act by Olympias.as Olympia had fel no less resentment a her divorce
andthe peeferment of Clopata to herself, tan Pausnias had fel a the ists
‘hich he ad received Olympia, i is certain, had hoses peepued for the
escape ofthe ass" (8.7.1-9),

‘When Olympia leaned thatthe king was dead, Justin explains, she hastened
to te funeral, Upon her aval she astonished everyone by paying ostentatious
fespoct to the assassins corse Father than to Philip's Heve Justin, oedinasily
deemed an uniustwowthy source supplies such detailed infomation hat his
‘secountdeverves serious consideration’

[olympias} puta erwn of gold, the same night that she atived, on the

‘oa of Pastis. as he was hanging on cos: an act which no one DL

she would have dred todo, a long asthe son of Philip was alive A few

ays, she buat the body ofthe assassin when i hd heen taken dow,

‘upon te remains of her husband, and made him tomb inthe same place

‘She also provided tht yearly sacrifices shouldbe perform to is anes

[spi], pssesing the people witha superstitious notion fo the purpose

[istof all she consecrated the sword [or dager), with which he King bad

‘been killed, to Apollo, under the name of Myrtle, which was Olympia’ s

‘on name when child And al these things were done so publ. that

‘She seems to ave een iid lest it shoud ot be evident enough that he

eed was promoted by her.

071019
Putte, afer aso indicting Olympia, asthe statement that a certain amount
of accusation tached itself Alexander also (106). Plutarch then recounts
{story conceming Alexander and Pausanias in Which Alexander lsened to the
‘Woes of Pausanas and responded with a recitation of some verses fom
Euripides in which Medea threatened “ihe fae, bride and bridegroom all at


Page 58, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘might have had for him, Platarch reveals his own commitment to Alexander's
Jnnocence by reminding the reader tha the new Ling "ok creo tick down
pun hve who were nvlved nthe plot 0.

1

tarzan

nd

Dexiny

ie 1986-7)

‘i, on he ter hand sys that bath Oyepis and Alexander were “whoght
to have encouraged Pusan, when complaining of bis inal beng it
‘npunsbe, to s0-avocous ded (ax Phil's assassination” (0:78) and
Aclts csiegoraly tha twas Olympia who had aang to have horses
‘eoing tld nthe asain sexcape, Satyr provides Olympia’ motive. Ine
‘pinion Philip brought Cleopatra home to supplant Olympus someting
‘Aexanders mother woul! never have aceped gucioly. Beyond tht
‘Olympas and Pasanias shared common gevaness agains Pip, Atlus, and
Cleopatra

‘Olympas’weutment of Philip's young widow after the asssination aso
reveals the depth of her esenment Cleopa's chld was ote 0 deh in
ier presence at the horned muther was forced to hang enlf.™ Sich
‘tons make the case agaist Olympian Philips asasinton, whl paps

"A quater of century ago, Eros Baa, the doen of Alexander chal
pula challenging bt onthe death of Pip ht npc Alexander in
Ev far asasinaon "Arguing in he context of Alexandr “continued
Insc” from the tine of Pailip's marae to Cleopatra, and owing toa
faction st cour Dat inclaed Atak and Parmenio, ha of whom may ave
Sjpuhesie tat Alexaner, in conplicy with Antipater, was sponsible fr
Philips death. Pacing te events lavolving Php and Alexander again the
‘ekground of Macedonian sour policy snd alluding to Alexander's Titre
‘havior king, Badan deste following conclusion: "As for Assan be
‘behavior as king, Badian draws the following conclusions: “As for Alexander. he


Page 58, Instance 1, Class: Text
fence." The passage refers to King Creon’s concern over what the incensed
‘Medea might do to tin bis daughter and his son-in-law (hr culden’s fae)
ler she had been ejected and shamed by her husband. The analogy is 1
‘Altus, hs niece Cleopatra, and Philip. Plutarch ads that Pausanas had been
‘ctimized by both Atlus and Cleopatia

"Am admiser of Alexander and clearly uncomfortable at the implications this
‘might have ad for him, Pitch reveals his ova commitment to Alexander's
Jnnacence by enninding the reader that the new king "Wok cue to track down
th punish those who were involved in the plat” (108,


Page 59, Instance 0, Class: Text
him. As soon as he felt strong enough, he insulted Philip's memory and even
etic bis paternity. Ax in ober testo cases, his tesentnet did no tp at the
{rave be had beled wo dig" Badlan’s hypothe has become the bts fr
‘conteation, developed and subscribed to by several scholars, tat Alexander Was
ly of patie

"There ie diverse clement i this argument tat merit consideration. From
‘Alexander's point of View. Philp selected his latest bide fom a. most
‘undesirable family. Also fiiism of any sort aways distubod Alexander, and
Sotho insult fom Auls enraged him, The Pears afar evealed the depth of
“Alexander's insecuris, a5 wall as de iogial lengths to which he would 20
‘when fearful of being dpeved of the opportunity to realize his own glory. The
Thnishment of several Of his most loVal supporters probably compounded
‘Alexander's anxieties, ahd it did not help when the cbosious Atalus Was
‘offered the opportunity to draw fist blood in Asia. Even the mariage of
‘Alexander's ster to the Molossian King could be contued as another
‘unconscionable efense on Philip's part. Alexander perceived himself as the
victim of circumstances, a role he found intolerable

“Alexander's fear of losing his ight to assume the kingship is pivotal othe
contention that e paricipsted in a plot against his fae. This argument
involves questions of Alexandr’ legtincy, his standing as ir parent, he
<lsplacement of his mother by Philip andthe status ofthe child or eldien orn
‘to Philips lst wife. There is no convincing evidence that Philp ever questioned
‘Alexander's legitimacy." The bargain suck o ensure Alexander's eur fom
Iltia mst have included conimations of his status and right of succession, If
Plilp had planed to replace Aleander the Pitodars affair offered perfect,
‘opportunity butte kings actions made it clea that he had o such intention.
Sh teported, Alexander accompanied his faher in place of honor at Agpas
there is no reason to belive that Alexandr’ inheritance was in jeopandy. The
(question of ow Alexander interpreted ther selaionship. in, however
Aanswerble.

‘Somme before the assassination Philip aanged ¢ mastiage between bis
laughter Cynane and his nephew Amos. Anyatas had een te child-beir
to the Macedonian tone in 359. At that time Philip puobably acts the
cll’ rgent but he subsequcly eplced him a king. Alexandr’ cousin was
bout five years older than the crown prince and a potential candidate foe the
ftuone, if one accepts the theory thatthe asetbly could choose any mle
‘member frm the Argead family as their new king” Either Aniyotas or Bis son
by Philip's daughter would qualify inthis espect. Philp may have sponsored the
‘lage to supply oae mote candidate forthe tone should he and Alexander
fers, and his own martage to Cleopata fail to produce a surviving son
Whatever Pilp's rationale this move ws yet anther source of ane for
Alexander

‘Some scholars claim that Philip divorced Olympias'\—an action that would
conainly have alienated Alexander—but this assumption seems unwanted.
Macedonian kings customarily practiced polygamy, and Mere was no apparent


Page 60, Instance 0, Class: Text
reason for him to make an exception in Olympias’ case. In fact, a divorce might
have served to disaffect Alexander of Episus and perhaps force him ino an
‘veratal positon. Ir would hive been unnecesary and countrpeoductive 0
allo Philip's intentions

‘The problem ofthe number and gender ofthe chilsen produced by Philip's
las wile is signifcant and puzling. Plutarch ignores the question, but the
‘mariage clearly rested in at eas one, and possibly two, offspring. Satyr
‘ys that "Clopata in her tum, bore to Philip dauger, the one who was
‘alld Europa." Europa (whose mythological beter was Cans the moral
‘randfaer of Dionysus). not mentioned by name elsewhere. Diedows sys
‘Sly tht “Cleopatra had bore child o Pip few days before is deat”
(172.3), Justin speaks of a daughter but als of Alexander's brother Caan.
{he Son of his step-mother, a "a ial forthe tone” (.73)."" Pausanias (he
‘wit. at the assassin) males eference to Philip's "infant sa by Cleapate."”=

"The evidence i confusing ut thee isa possible explanation. Tore may have
‘en two children: the Gist gi with whom Cleopatrs could have been pregnant
at her weddig: the second’ 4 boy. who Was. bomshoaly”belore the
‘ssssnation.”” The male infant may oaly ave survived fora viet pio of
tie, and this could be the reason that he war ignored by som ancient
autores. It has been pointed gut by Robin Lane Fox tht “babies are not
Invented in Macedonian history." and the name refered tia the sources for
this boy is eminently credible king called Caranus was belived to be the
Founder ofthe Argead dynasty ia Macedon." I one apres tat Alexander
‘was in stat of high anxiety dsing this pid, the bith ofa ryal Son who was
‘ecoghzed as "legtimate” by an sauental faction at the cour—and called
(Caranus—would only seve to multiply his fer

"Those who allege Aesanders complicity inte dest of his father emphasize
the manner in which the asassin was bandied. The unspecified numer of
bodyguards who apprehended Paani Killed him with dispatch, thereby
liminaing any explanation ofthe at by is perpetrator. The names of thee of
the bodyguards who killed Pasanias ate mentioned by Diodorus. They ate none
‘ter than Alexander’ friends who bad not been exiled in connection with the
Pxodarusaffue Leonnsts, Perdicess, abd Atal. It hs boen clined that
they were Royal Bodyguatds, but the evidence suggests that they probably
served in Aleanders own cade of personal Bodyguards.”

“Antpater pays crucial role in the schol Def against Alexander." He
sepomtedly presented Alexander othe amy for acclamation asking immediately
aller the asassinaton apd it was his soi, Alexander the Lyncesian. who
‘was the Gist to salute Alotander as the king. He was a senior diplomat and
‘ener and an intellectual of srs: his actions were eral a the tansference
ff power This man was no stangor wo the new king. He was apparently present
‘when Alexander became regent at 16, certnly accompanied the young man on
‘is diplomatic plgimage to Athen ater Charonea, and then Was appointed
viceroy in Europe when Alexande etn his expedition, Ait’ tmtives for
atuspating in he pl, i has Deen suggested, canbe waced this disaisfacton


Page 61, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘wits the growing power ofthe Panmenio- Ata faton, and to his increased
{Gsencaniment ‘with Pup, asthe King increasingly ‘ited with his own
‘scan
with Pip had’ cenainly become ember He was infused over the
alousest with which be and his mother ad Been este, isc ove he
{ueton of successional poly eae sout the fa tht tas i father
Siu ot he hist who wan onthe esol of everlasting fame. Afr al
Bhi even 47 wa emarkably ral, and knight be twenty yet ore
fore Altander would get hit chance to Tea. Tere war even the remote
ovat. a east in Aland’ in, tha uch oporniy wou never
fue’ mde. Phtach marely sts that sme actions had ouch on
‘Alesana Justin says that Passa had tec ntgatd by Olympia “and
{hat Alexandr hinelf ws ot ignorant that hi father was tobe kl” (7.1,
‘Thisrendidon appears ohe move cede dn hove that depict Alen san
Tin ach Olynpias was sponsible forthe asasnaton,tihghyaniely
that Alexandr would hve bse ignoant of what was about o want." Both
‘er and son ad nen, and aces unreasonable to sssume dat Olympise
‘woud sk the pony of peeing someone other tan Alexander to seize
‘would ave hoe een for Alexander to seman above reproach inthe whole
“inode. and for not one ad of evidence to pint nhs ection, Stspicion
‘Would have to be defected fromthe new King. abd, inthis content he
‘elodamaicpoiicaion of Passanisr by" Olmpiss comes plane
‘Accusations aghinst Olympie were neil, but se could demonstrate et
Sppoval ofthe murder wibout neces admiting gut whe siltancouly
rtwing atenion to hel and away from her son. Should anyone have had
Sought temeriy to demand tat charges be" bought agus Osmpisy,
‘Alexander, ow king, could be counted ont ct she alin. Alexander i
‘Sicily designate hone who were sana” coconspatry, and he brought
Snnocene inthis betal fa. Even the Ronin stra Cau, who enjoyed
‘morliing over Alexander's shonconings, count filial piety anong. his
Inficint grounds to support any indian. Alexander's ligisty and
‘hsessiveconcem forthe ay i which he was eco by ters would have
Pde would uly is eta fever, The rope was unital


Page 63, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘THE ACCESSION (336 BC)
Among te most pressing of Alesande’s state obligations wis the aranging of his
Tater's fun. If the tombs at Veegina ate fflection of his efor then
‘Alexander attended otis duty wih dispatch and consideration, The bones fom
‘Tomb I suggest thatthe deceased may have ben given a Homeric bul silat
otha of Hector as described inthe closing verse ofthe iad:

But when all were gathered to one place and assembled together, fist with

‘leaning win they put out the pte that was bung, all where the fry of

fhe fie sll was in force, and thereafer the bothers and companions of

Hektor gathered the white bones up, mourning. asthe ers swelled and ran

down their checks. Ten they laid what the} bad gathered up ina golden

‘lsket and wrapped this about with oft obes of purple, and presently put

‘away ithe hollow ofthe gave

24.790-7)

“The “sons of Aeropus” were accused of Philip's assassination, and two of the
tdvee botbers were put to death at Aegae.' These men belonged to the eoyal
house that ance govemed Lyncests, an upland regio that had been coerced ito
‘becoming apart of Macedonia. Justin says thatthe murderers were executed at
Philip's grave ste? His iso the burned weapons found on the outside of he
‘oof of Tomb I may have belonged tthe two roses. Tei cle i the murder
‘of Philip i eeported with tuntlzing brevity by Aan”

‘Alexander however could have had eter reasons for thet liminaton, which
the historian Was unaware of or thought best nt 10 elaborate upon. The
Lyncestins may have supported an Argead oer than Alexander for the
‘ingsip. or hoped to see member of thei own fail enlizoned. Alexander,
‘who was unsure of Lyacestian allegiance, might have seized te opportunity 19
{id binself of thee powerful men of dubious loyal. Speculation aside,
‘Alexander's actions established an official position with respect 40” the
‘ssissnatin, and anyone who objected did soa his ov ps


Page 64, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The thin brother, Alexander the Lyncestian, saved himelf by being the fis
to hail Alexander asking“ He put on abreasplate ad escorted his sovereign to
{he place. His behavior long withthe fact that he was Ante s sonia
‘was probly the decisive factor in Aetande’s decision to grant him munity.
“Tic reprieve also demonstrated tht Macedona's new king was discriminate
‘with punishment and capable of clemency

"The Lyncesian house was also liked with Amyntas, the son of Periccas
andthe lvdher and predecessor of Philip 1° This ehld-kins. who had ben put
{side in favor of Philip 35," sil possessed the credentials necessary to asset
4 claim wo the tyoae. After Philip's deuh, Macedonia, Plutarch tls us, "was
festering with revolt snd looking foward Amytas apd the ehlden of Aeropus”
(PMor 327)” Amynta, who had lived at Philip's cour without posing a teat
[ssid co have cane the tone sometime afer Alexander's ccesion, For this
he was executed by Alesander.* Justin says that Catanus, the alleged son of
Philip's lst wife, was also killed shor after Alexandr came to power”

‘The situation in Asia Minoc wis also uoublesome, Atlus, Clepats's uncle
and Alesanders bite nore, setved there under Partoenio, bis fatherilaw and
‘he most accomplished of Philip's gears. Sholy after the assassination,
‘Atalus responded to subversive coespondence fom Demesthenes Wwitbout
informing the king. When it became clear to Atalus that Alexander was securely
‘sablished onthe tone, he turned Demoihene” lees over to Alexandr 3
bolted proof of his loyalty. The king. who was apparel aware of the entite
Staton answered by sending cvtainHecataus 10 Asia "under onets ong
Tack Atlus alive if he could, but if oot 4 astassnate him as quickly a
possible” (D725) Atta and his relatives were soon liquidated" Ahough
“Atlus was popular with is Woops, and Pamenio was with bm a Asia this
te, there wasnoupisingsgainet Alexandr, Ernst Badin has suggested that
dea! was stuck between Alexander and Parmenio that resulted inthe let's
Jetisoning of talus Pamenio's acquiescence in Atalus elimination perhaps
eps o explain the fact that on the Wink ofthe invasion of Asia many ofthe
‘enor conshand postions nthe Macedonian amy were cupid by members of
the house of Pameni.” This was a siuation that Alexander would alee when
Parmenio was no longer a necessary pao is plans.

“Alexander began his eign. as his predecessors had bepun this, with a purge
‘The Ling is credibly weported to have been disturbed by his mother's beta
‘weatmeat of Cleopata Wile he was aa from cour.” Alexander also spared
Pili Arhidaus, who was a cause of grave concern atthe ime of the Pods
affair coud be argued tha the new king no longer sa his half-brother aban
Immediate deat to his position, and was therfore able vo safeguard him, and
coineidenally afer to posterity an example of his concer far te handicapped
Sd Vulnerable. The menally deficient Azhidacus may have accompanied
“Alexander to Asia in 334, which would have prevented Alexanders unfortunate
‘alPeoer fom becoming focus for elon in Macedonia.

‘Alexander declared that the change in kings was a change ia name only
‘hereby assuring the Macedonian pobility of his intention to respect al of thie


Page 65, Instance 0, Class: Text
rights and privileges. In general be stated that they could expect the tate tobe
‘the sae eiciples as those employed by Pip.

tte same tie

good king

ants

strong

Spourtightr

dL 3.179)
‘Also, although Alexander was badly ia neo of money. all Macedonian ction
‘twas sai, Were henceforth exempt fom dtet taxation, This proclamation Was
designed to sway public pinion nthe young king favor. Asexpected, noone
protested

‘On the day of the asassnation Greek representatives were reminded ofthe
cats of alliance that bound the oles wo Philip and his descendants hough the
‘Covntian League. The delezaes in attendance coofirmed these oaths bt thie
fellow ciizons hack home were soon celebrating Philip's demise and anticipating
the end of Macedonian conto. Demosthenes, whose daughter had ded aly si
days before, abandoned the titional emblems of mourning and appeared in
‘Athens dressed in splendid robe and crowned with  garand.” The orator had
‘ceived word fom his agents in Macedoaia about what had eceurted there. He
fnnounced to a populace sll unaware of Pips death that had een revealed
fo him ia a dam that Athens would very sho receive news af @ great
Desig. Predictably word would soon veach the ei) concerning What bad
hhappened at Aczae and confeming Demosthenes’ revelation. A jubilant citizenry
Yoled thanksgvings forthe good news and consserated 4 golden cown ia
‘memory ofthe dead asassin.

"The Greeks assumed thai because of his age and ineperince Alexander
‘would soon be overwhelmed by both internal problems and by widespread revolt
long his aocthem otders. They felt thut the tine was spe to asset
Independence fom Macedonia. Alexander's advisers agrd with the Greek
asssnment of the sialon. They counseled him wo ignote Greece and appease
the tbellous barbarians unl his siecession war secure, Alexander,
characteristic, "chose precisely the opposite couse at decided dha the oy
‘way to make his kingdom safe was to act with audacity anda lfty pit, fr be
‘Was certain thar iThe wete scent yield even a fraction of his aut al his
enemies Would atck im at once” (P-L.

ALEXANDER IN GREECE (336 BC)
“The king's fist challenge accued at the val of Tempe, narrow river gorge in
‘Thessaly that led southward into Greece proper. While the Thesslians, who
enjoyed a stong defensive position been the masifs of Olympus and Oss,
‘mulled over Alexander's questo pass hwough, Alexander had his engineers cat


Page 66, Instance 0, Class: Text
steps around the seaward side of Mount Ossa. When negotiations resumed, the
‘Tessalians were astonished to sce lage potion of the Macedonian anny
positioned hind them.

“Alexander capitalized on his upper band by gently reminding his neghboes
that they shated 4 common lineage from Heracles and Achilles, and that his
father had been of ho small service to Thessaly. Stunned by his stratagem. and
{even more so by his coil disposition under the czcumstances, the Tessas
pemited Alexandr io sucoed Phlip a president (tagos) of thei federation,
Sind placed thir cavalry, the best in Greece, at his disposal Alexander aso
‘scoeped the same revenue fiom Thessaly enjoyed by Philip. and exempted
‘Thesalian Pula. the birhplace of Acils, rom any abdall ation.”

‘AY Thermopylae Alexander was confinned as hegemon of the Helles, a
‘prestigious poston that had also been bed by his father” Alexander then
‘matched on Thcbes, where the Macedooian gutison had been expelled and
‘whetealtempts to liberate Greece from Macedonian vertndship hed found 8
tallying point. He appeared with such string rapidity thal Thebes was
lunprepared to ress effectively His appeals to be ecopnze as hegemon of the
CCoviathian Leugue and for Macedonian woops t be tensated were accepted
‘without esiation

‘An Athenian delegation soon appeared, expressed profound regrets over their
‘andy secogition of the new king. abd announced tha they had confeed hones
‘on Alexander hut were even greater thin those they had bestowed upon Philip.
‘Alexander ealed plenary acting ofthe Corinthian League He Was delated
fits egemon and gtanted the suppost he requested fe a punitive expedition
agains the Persians.

“A fequenty od tle involving Alexander and Diogenes of Sinope the famous
{Cynic pilosopo.isetin Cori at this ime" In Platareh’'s version of he tr.
Diogenes, unlike most philosophers inthe area, who wete eile curious oF
Ssceing a grant of some So, chose to ignore Alexander's presence. The king, We
fe tol, sought out Diogenes and found him sunbathing. During this encounter
Diogenes just tured at Alexander until the King asked im if there was anything
‘he might do for hm. "Yes. you ean stand a ite ne side ou of my su (1
the pllosopher commented

the happiness f thse for whom te ay is blessed

‘but doubly essed the night

whose

Simple wisdom

suns


Page 67, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘character of both the philosopher and the king. _

"Aer conpleting his Dsiess at Corinth, Alexandr consulted the orc of
‘Aallo at "Delphi “conceming is forbcoming war aaitat Pea”
Unfortnasy, be acne there at ine when twas forbidden fo Apll's
‘ropes, the Py, to comida qucaton or tra epy; When Alotaner
‘tage off to the sui se sido hve exces, "You alain, ny
Sont” (2.14), lexan then reese be om hi grip saying that no fartet
opbecy was reuire

such is my stenath

dy

ind

W850)

1k was unommon for Alexander volte a sacred waitin. If anthing he was
uncon in observing religious poccal When necssisy cased confit
‘eneen action and oon, however, he would seek solution that would
accomplish his-ejecive whic keeping ny regis penlies Io batt
‘iim, pret example of his behavior kes place baie the atl of he
GGankus River in 336 BC. when Alexander was faced with siustion which
‘ested create elgoay” He was determined otc the Persian soon
[the oppouniy resend ule ut twa the Macedonian month of Datos
(Gta), ding which Sighting vas fobidden by custom. Appling the same
Stuginaive approach fr which he is famous om the batted, th King
solemnly proclimed that i wis nt Daisio at all but a connuation of
‘Arenistn the preceding mon. This manipulation of he calendar, whi was
“doubly approved by his ers, allowed it to engage in te witht
(technically ling the eadion

“Aleta unchatatrsicHeaior t Delphi in 336 is reminiscent of an
counter his mybial ancestor Heracles wa de supposed a have hal ith
{he Py, Apollo was he god of pian, expecilyconeming homicide,
fa Heras sd to have vist Dep secing sce forthe made ht
‘Rade his i, Whe the orc refused to reply this eqs, Heracles sczed
{he tipo, the sacred set ofthe ropbetss, an heated fo ets is own
‘rack hewhse Apollo then rue tothe dfese of his pests and stated
Wiley with his baloter Zsus ha to separ ht lng sons wih a
‘nde but Heracles evenly gthe ace he was seeking: Members of


Page 67, Instance 2, Class: Text
Prutarch continues by stating that Alexander was impressed by his independent
spl ands sid 1 have remarked o fends who made unkind remarks about the
Sly philosopher "You may say whit you like. but T were not Alexander. 1
‘Would he Diogenes” (14.8). While this try may be fetitous, it does cape the
character of bo the pilsopher andthe king.

“Aller competing his business at Coin, Alexander consulted the oracle of
Apollo at" Delphi conceming his. foricoming war agaist Persia
Unfortunatly, he aaived thee a time when st ws fobidden for Apollo's
‘popes, the Pyhia, to coasider a question oe utr a eeply. When Alexander
‘who was determined wo exuact a respoase from this great autor attempted 1
diag he off w the sins shes said wo have exclaimed. "You ae laine,
son?” (P47), Alexander then released he from his grip, saying that no further
‘prophecy was required.


Page 68, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘his family shared an insistence om having things ther own way, and Alexander
‘who thought of himself sa diet descendant of Heracles, was no exception.

‘Alexander seems to have appeared at Delphi shorty after Apello had fois
annual sojoum among the Hyperoreans. Inthe god's absence, Dionysus. who
‘had become Apollo's panuct there, pesded over the sanctuary. Therefore it
‘would be Dioaysus, and not Apollo, who was slighted by Alexander's rade
behavior

Plutarch, who was a rest of Apollo at Delph and had been insted nt the
mysteries of the cl of Dionysus, fers some revealing observations an the 860
‘ods: “Apollo the artist epesea in paintings and sculpture as ever ageless and
young, but Dionysus they depict in many guises and forms: and they atibute to
“Apollo in general a unifoenity,ordetiness, and unadulterated seriousess butt
Dionysus a cerain Vatabilty combined with playfulaes,- wantonnes,
Seriousness and fenzy” (Po 396).

TE Apollo symbolizes in some ways, che rational element in human beings
“Dionysus resents the ational element in man, and his myths the coafict
‘between reaton and real convention on one side, etotion on the othe.”
GSKick Although seemingly antithetical Apolo and Dioaysus weee joined
together symbotcally at Delphi long before Aletander's excursion thee
“Andrew Stewart describes an Aticred-igured erate (a bowl shaped vase used
formiaing wine and wate) fom the eat fourth century that pictures hese Wo
sepresetatives of opposing yet complementary aspects of the human psyche as
‘conjoined in an indssluble bond"

‘Alexander’ physical intimidation ofthe Pythia, occuring it would seem
while Dionysus was on watch at Dep was an act of vileace (yrs that &
Nengefl deity was not likey to foget The king galloped north uamil of the
‘Apollonian maxims to “Know thysel?” and "Do nothing in exces.” while the
divine sentinel unveiled his enigmati ale

He shall come

now

Dionysus

(a. 839-60)
NORTHERN CAMPAIGNS (835 BC)

‘Alexander rushed back to Macedonia with the iotention of stabilizing his
‘northern fonirs a soon as possible.” ln the eal spring of 335 hele a strike
fence up trom Ansplipolis, past Philipp and Phlipppolis to Mount Haemus
Perhaps Olympias, «devote of Dionysus, advised he son that his behavior at
Delph was more serious tha he realized

‘Mankind young man possesses to supreme blessings

“First ofthese is the godless Demeter ot Earth,


Page 69, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘the son of Semele

‘who matched er present

by inventing

guid

is it

(ba. 204-80)
Whatever his motivation, Alexander made point of pausing to sacsifice 19
Dionysus a the g's sanctuary in poteasera Macedonia, The Maes trom his
sacrifice reached such an unusual height that Alexander Became alamed." The
‘King's sees reassured him at this merely signified vitor inthe campaign
lhe, and he appears to have ben sated with his intrpctation,

“At the Trojan pss inthe Balkan Mountains Aletandet was confronted with
‘Thacian wagons tha were gathered a the op ofa step incline. He anticipated 2
cascade of descending Wagons a a pelod to an enemy attack and ordered his
‘woops when room was available, to sidestep the oncoming Vehicles. When this
‘was impossible the soldiers weteinstucted t he down and lnk tet shils
together so thatthe wagons would bound harmlessly ove the, Tis spectacular
{sete was followed bya Macedonian offensive that stunned the outed

‘Soon afl. Aleander defeated the Tribals, a tube that had caused
considerable problems fr his father. and then contoued his match toward the
Danube (ste. Philip had been he fist Macedonian king to campaign a far
‘oth asthe Danube, and Alexandr was ow presented With 3 chance to surpass
his fbr Here, acconding to Avian, Alexander felt a longing (potios) 1
oss this fomndable ver. Pots, which apears ia Aristotle's paca o Heras,
land intermitendy doughout Aran'ssecount of Alexander's career, bas bee
Tnked by a modem scholar with the conguerr's “longing for tings ot yet
‘within seach, forthe unknoven, far distant, unataied™*

why

you

sional

(Ba 813)
Although the deste to outdo Philip was most likely the pine mative, other
factors undoobtedly contibuted to his decision wo eros the Danube. Frastated
by the menacing Gelae across the river, Alexander probably concluded that t


Page 70, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘was necessary to demonstrate that there was no safe retreat for any hostile force
inthe region The vansporing of his army across the Danube inthe face of
‘opposition was just the set of major challenge Alexandr exccled at. The hides
fom his uoops ens were stuffed with sta and converted it alls, and these
Improvised vessels were joined wih local dugout canoes to form makeshift
flotilla, Some five thousand men crossed the Danube overnight.

"The enemy was astounded when the Macedonian infty, presumed o be on
the other side ofthe rier, merped out ofa eld of high-standing cor, teins
it with their Touten-foot pikes held sideways. The Getae teveted in utet
confusion, and soon wibes fom hvoughout the sutounding zea came 1 pay
homage to this dashing young wartior who fought with such Mai, Even the
CCl, whose trogp concentrations were same distance away on the Adit,
ved to pay thei respects

"A conversation between Alexander and the Ces at drinking session was
teported by toletny, who fought inthis campaign Aletander, peeps oping
to lca memorable compliment fom them, asked the Celts what they deaded
‘ost They ans ered that hei greats fear was thatthe sky Would fall Aleabder
‘was puzzled and no doubt disappointed by their response. They did finally
{expres admiation of Some unspecified sot for him, and be atu declared the
(Cots to he his tens and allies. As they departed, however, Alexander, having
fone Somewhat different opinion fam the oae that he expessed, murmured,
“What braggats Celts are” (ALLA).

Tn rate for his sae passage across the sve, Alexander saciid 10 Zeus
{he Preserve, Heracles andthe Spit ofthe Danube. He may also have patel
fseknowledged his indebtedness toa celebrated Athenian writer and general fot
{his great feat Xenophon, who helped lead the reueat of 10.000 Greeks out of
‘Mesopotamia ad actons Asa Minor earlier inthe fourth century, had left
scot of this remarkable jourey in his Anabas la this work weasure Uove
fof detailed military, geographic, and ethnographic infomation about Psa,
‘Xenophon describes a remarkably similar crossing ofthe Eupvates on ells of
‘tute skin”

‘Alexander knew is Xenopion, and seems to have teen parculaly
influenced by the Cyropueda a tionslized and Lauatory account of the ie of
(Cys the Great (dl 59) the founder ofthe Persian Empie.” This work, writen
by an nfligent and peagmatic Abenian awistcrt, catalogues the vies of
deal eae, while adresing the questions of auth andipesal governance
‘Simon Hornblower points out thatthe theory of kingship found inthis work
‘whotein a ruler cans his right wo gover dough his own exertions philopoia,
‘sles a a glorious sera of his people, has its model in Heracles.”

‘The Cyropaedia contains an imaginary conversation in which Xenophon hss
(Cys tell his father Cambyses, "thatthe ur ought to surpas those under his
fale ot in self'ndulgence, but in taking foretbought and willingly undergoing
toi." Camnbyses advises Cyrus tat nothing snore portant for leader than
‘winning the affection of his men, and this can be accomplished by shang in
‘their happiness, sorrow, pleasure, and pain. In war, Cambyses tells Cyrus, “if


Page 71, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘they [the campaigns] fall in the summer time, the general must show that he can
endure the heat ofthe sun eter than his sors ean, and that be ean endure
‘old ete tha they ite winter fhe way lea hugh difficuies, hat he
an endure hah tte. II tiscontibules this Being oved by is

“Xenophon's Cyrus is prototype ofthe ideal ler, and Alexander was, 2s
‘Suabo says "a lover of Cyrus" (I1-11-4}" To Xenophon the Persian monarch is
fan inwepid congucror who coasistenly: displays courage and. a miliary
Snveniveness that confounds the enemy.” He Keeps his woops on the mach 2
‘muchas posible, and sponsors competitive games when they are stationary. These
{ames encourage an esprit de cops, advocate fitness, and ealtvat 4 benign
ftemal image for the ruler who doles out rewards for excellence." Cyrus
‘emovizes the names of his officers pays special atention to his Wounded.
fand shows a deep, personal concem forthe problems of his soldier.” He
‘onsanly monitors thei heath, mora, and discipline: He must learn “fom
{he gos bythe soothsayer at" which wll give him a spcil wisdom thi is
respected by his subjects. “For people ate onl too glad to obey the man Who
they belive takes wiser hough To hei interests than they themselves da"

Tnage is of the ulmost inperance, and appearance is sometines more
‘important than realy. We seem to lar fom Cyrus, Xenophon says hai is
‘eteseary fora sucessful ruler “o excel bis subs ot only i ptt of Being
actualy bee tha the. bu that be ought alsoto eas sort of spell up them"
{Cys may have ha ths in mind, Xenophon infer. when he adopted the Median
iss “and persuaded his associates also o adopt it: or he thought ht ian ene
‘had any personal defect. tht dress would bep to conceit and that t made the
‘wear look very tal and very handsome. Xenophon also mentions a shoe 10
‘which an additonal sole could be added without being obvious so that "te
‘wearer can easily put something inc he soles so as to mae him look alle han
ness

“Xenophon would have admired the young Alexander's speed, determination,
and petempiory analysis of one complex military situation after apother Tough
these efforts, Alexandr wis able to lend tabilty to his northern rds, ad
{tothe bargin offer his woops a sample ofthe type of mar experiences they
‘were destined to encounter in the years ahead

“Although he had been conionted by enemies from every ditetion upon is
accession, Alexander dealt successfull with each in tum. Some, Diodons tells
{she won over “by persuasion and diplomacy, others heightened iat keeping
‘he peace, but some had tobe mastered by force and so seduced to submission”
(1756), He did what was nocessaty to esthish his auodty as King erasing
any doubts in the minds of his oops haat easton the atleild, Alexander was
‘a worthy successor to Philip.


Page 72, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘THE DESTRUCTION OF THEBES (335 BC)

‘While Alexander stugsed to subdue his northern neighbors, Demosthenes
fulminited gaint him inthe Attenian Asembly. The orator refered to hit as
‘oy, and, worse yet Magites—theant-hero of a Homeric paody who aever
scomed fo ge anything staight, including his own parentage. Demosthenes
lunged Thebes to revolt promise to supply the city with weapons purchased with
Persian gold and offered assurances tht Athens woul join the Tsbans in wat
agaist Macedon. It was rumored in Greece that Alexander had been Killed
‘thong the barbrians and Demosthenes went so far a to prc a wounded
Soler who claimed to have partite i the bate in which Alexander fll *
‘Some Tichans, prompted bythe return of eles hose to Macedon killed 60
Macedonians who bad ventured outside thee fress. Thebes wasn open revo

Faced withthe prospect of general outbvcak in Gresce Alexandr ed his
woop southward through the pas at Thermopylae. He announced that becuse
Demostnes had called hima boy while he was among the Mlians and
‘Tahalins, and a youth when he was in Thessaly. be would demonstate tothe
‘orator before the walls of Athens that he was a man It was Thee, however
find not Atens, that was his immedi consideration, and Alexander marched
1s woops some 280 miles in 13 days and estublished himself afew ies pot of
te city" At fist the Thebans found t impossible to believe dat twas tly
‘Alekader and not Anpatr or some otter Alexander who led the anny. Their
Incredality soon vanished

“Alexatdersaliond his woop ouside the city a the Electra Ge, cose tthe
precinct of lla (named forthe beloved companion of Heracles). where the
{oud ffom Athns entered Thebes. Hoping that his presence Would force the
‘Thebans to reconsider their position, Alexander waited foe signs of epentance
ind reconciliation, He asked forthe suender of two ofthe leaders of the revolt
to much the Macedonian casuals and offered amnesty for al those who were
willing to separate themselves fom the insurgents. Wah surpesing inslence the
‘Thebans countered with a demand tht Alexander tum Philos and Aipater
cover t them. They announced fom 2 high overlook, Diodorus sy, that
anyone who wished 1o join the Great King and Thebes in feing the Greeks and
‘destroying the tra of Greece should come ovr to them, This epithet sung
‘Alexander. He lew ato a towering age and declared that he would puss the
‘Thebans withthe extenity of punishment” (1795-0)

‘Thebes offered a Valiant defense, but the city was overwbelmed. Alexander,
‘Ain ells us, could be seen "now here, ow thes” (18.7) ia the bate

Noone could have stood up against him and stopp him

except the gous

‘whet he bust in the gates

co

lhneyes


Page 73, Instance 0, Class: Text
ME 12.465-6)
‘The Macedonian juggeraut, supported by woops fom local members of the
CCovnthian League, peeved. Si thousand Thebans Weee slaughtered before the
engagement was over. and aftervads the queston arose of Whether of not
Further punishment should be ified

“Thugh its evolt Thbes had violated the Cmamon Peace established bythe
CCovatian League, of which it was a member. Alexander had acted in his
iil capacity as an agent of the League. Cominuing to observe protocol
‘Alexander mod the fae of Thebes overt those members ofthe League who
happened 10 be present These members. were, for the most pa fom
seighbaing cis vieimized by Thebes at some time inthe pst and they
‘recited litany of unconscionable acts perpetate in bygone days by this great
power. Charges included the leveling of several cies and, pethaps more
Impertant to Alesander, Thebes’ suppor of Persians against Grecs in the pas.
Susi sas, They bought forward also te fabulous accounts of heir old ees,
‘with which they had filled every teat, to make them odious nt only fr thie
‘eat perfidy, but for thet ancien infamy” (1111). What else might ane
expect ofthe city that produced the likes of Oedipus and Creo? Ie ws solely
ecred hat the city ws tobe destroyed.

‘As hegemon of the Corinthian League, Alexander catod out the one.
‘Thebes was leveled, and 30,000 of i inhabitants were sad ito slavery. The
king was careful to protect peests. prsstesses, temples, oly places, and
individuals who suppotted Macodon in one way or another, He alsa spared the
family home ofthe poet Pindar, who bad writen one poem in honor of Alexander
Tf Macedon, and anoer speaking of “Herakles vest a bat. the Blood ia
‘im follows is father's tacks"”

“Techical, Alexander had wothing todo wit the decision ofthe League: be
‘merely executed its mandate. There is no doubt however, that he coud have
Influenced the members’ discussions had he chosen to: Alexander sees 10
‘have complied so exactly wih the League's directive because he expected hathis
‘ction would “frighten the rest ofthe Greeks into submirion by making &
{enble example" (P11-11)- Itai, In. Hamilton's woeds, I was a calelated
{et of eros on Alexander's par"?

‘Atbens bad ted to sce how the Thebans would fare against the
‘Macedonians before supplying the manpower i had promised. Now. eaing &
mula fate for tee om iy. the Athenians Seat a delegation 10 Alexander
‘congratulating him on his return fromm the north and craven conderaing the
‘Theban revolt Phuc says: “lt may be that Alexander's fury had been sated
‘with hood, ike ons or perhaps hat he Wished to efface his erul and savage
‘ueatment ofthe Thebans By performing an act of clemency” (132). The king
demanded oaly the susteader often (or ight) genotals and citizens (cluding
Demosthenes) who were iastumeatl in encouraging Thebes o revel Instead
‘Ans sent Dems, who had negated succesfully with Philp 0 appl for
‘a mitigation of what Alexander had asked. Since he was now ac anxious as his


Page 74, Instance 0, Class: Text
father had boon to launch the Asai vere, Alexander merely insisted nthe
cle of a cetain now- Athenian general inthe service of the ety. The Athenians
‘illgly complied.

Philips destution of Olyatus in 348 had ended any resistance 10
‘Macedonian suzeainty in that region, and. Alexanders dstution of Thebes
accomplished the same objective in Greece. Yet Thebes was iferent It boasted
ich tubleay of mythological and histovcal figures that incioded Cadmus
Osaipus,Pelopidas, and Epaminondas. This city, was std, was oe ofthe 640
eyes of Hellas, and now that eje was gone” Arian admits hat the st Was
‘owed by all Greks as a general calamity. I certainly put eet any hopes
Tor a cordial relationship between Alexander and the mainland Greeks, and
scoms ta havea atlling personal effecton the king” Pethapsit occurred hi,
midst the rubble ofthe ety, as he ruminted over Thebes’ vanished supremacy
dnd distinguished religous vaditon, that this was, after al, he bintplace of
Dionysus the ity chosen by the godin which wo establish is ul

Iwas

tenibly

Dlaspemed

sy name

dishonored

Thebes

(Ba. 1377-8)
‘Even i Alexander had frgoten ll of his during thse frenzied days of decision
and clash of ams on the Bocotan pli, bis mother was certain o have reminded
‘im ofthe saerilegius nature of his action once he retumed to Pll

Laer in his cacer Alexander claimed that some of the most painful
experiences in his life wee ats of divine setaution for what he ad doae at
‘Thebes Plutch writes! "Cesanly he believed thatthe murder of Ces, which
‘he commited when he was drunk, and the cowardly refusal ofthe Macedonians
{0 coss the Ganges [Beas] and atak the Indians, which cu shor his campaign
and robbed him a is crowning achievement, were both cused by the anger of
‘he god Dionysus, who wished to avenge the destuction of his favour cit”
(3),

By the clustered grapes

Tse by Dionysis

someday

you shal come to know

the name

ot

Bromius [Dionysus}


Page 74, Instance 1, Class: Text
father had been o launch the Asiatic adventure, Alexander merely insisted on the
cle of a cetain now- Athenian general inthe service of the ety. The Athenians
‘illgly complied.

PIilip's destucion of Olyabus in 348 had ended any sesisunce 10
‘Macedonian suzeainty in that region, and. Alexanders dstution of Thebes
accomplished the same objective in Greece. Yet Thebes was iferent It boasted
ich tubleay of mythological and histovcal figures that incioded Cadmus
Osaipus,Pelopidas, and Epaminondas. This city, was std, was oe ofthe 640
eyes of Hellas, and now that eje was gone” Arian admits hat the st Was
‘owed by all Greks as a general calamity. I certainly put eet any hopes
Tor a cordial relationship between Alexander and the mainland Greeks, and
scems to ave had atlig personal effcton the king" Pethapsit occurred him,
midst the rubble ofthe ety, as he ruminted over Thebes’ vanished supremacy
fd distinguished religious tradition, that this was, afterall, he bintplace of
Dionysus the ity chosen by the godin which wo establish is ul


Page 75, Instance 0, Class: Text
(Ba, 534-6)
DIUM (335 BC)

In November 335 Alexander presided over the annual festival in Macedoaia in
‘honor of Zeus Olympius and the Muses at Diu. This festival, which was held at
the foot of Mount Olympus ia Pera, had been esablishel by Archolas and
used by Philip to commemorate a numberof victoes,inluding the eae of
‘Oyus. twas nine-day colbation, with each af the Muses boing honored
(on a separate day. With delegates in attendance from ll over Geese, it served,
Tike Philip's fel gathering at Aegae, to wunpt the kings planed crossing of
the Hellespont during the upcoming spring. Wine flowed, and Alexander no
doubt heard drinking songs similar tothe one composed by Bacchyides for
“Alexander Tia te preceding entry

"hasten to send a golden feather ofthe Muses

to Alexander san adenment for feasts

‘on twentieth days

‘when the sweet inducement of he moving cups

‘makes warm the tender beat of youths

fd the anticipation of Cyptis (Aphodi),

‘mingled with gifts of Dionysus,

distr ter senses

fn sends men's thoughts om high

‘Then does one destioy the citadel of cies

and rule x monarch over all many,

Hiss slam with gold and ivory

sn over the radiant seu fom Egypt

‘wheat laden ships bing him vas weal

‘Suet are the longings [poo ofthe drinkers hea *
During this festival Alexander was informed that local tate of Orpheus, who,
like Penheus, wa said to have been stacked and dismembered by auc, had
‘un to sweat profiel. This would oninarly be recognized as aba omen,
However, Arstander of Telmesss© who had become Alevander’s cic se
(and may have served Philip in the same capacity), interpreted it diferent. He
claimed that this phenomenoa simply meant that poets Would have 10 Wodk
‘emselves ino a later in order to do justice to Alexander's great dads”
“Aistande ad let fr ansforming such disastrous omens ato harbingers of
‘00d fortune. His revelations were good for morale, abd, oa an ad hoe bass, he
[owed to be remarkably sccurt, thanks in prt to his paton's aii to cum
potetial catastrophe int veo.

You ate

uextraotdinary young man


Page 76, Instance 0, Class: Text
Fou shalt win a ghory:
towering wo heaven

and

‘suing gous

(ba. 971-2)
ALEXANDER'S SEXUALITY

‘When Aleander’s advisers atempted to persuade him to mary and sve a son
‘before his depute forthe Orient the young King Maly sefsed 10 consider the
equest, and remarhed curly that it was no time 1 emai at home “clebeating &
‘mariage and awaiting the bith of elon” (D17-162). The chil’ ith, of
‘course, would not have reguted Alexander's presence, and his reponse must
have seemed illogical and Yexing. Alexander's minimization af the problem of
succession as piulaly baffling since the king and his advisers knew ll 00
‘well the hisiory of Maccdonian civil wars over the question of legitimate
‘stccesion. His decision to embask for Asia without even considering the need
Tor royal heir at bome must have Seemed bizute, if not unconscionable, 10
‘many, and certainly raises questions conceming Alexander's stude toward
‘women andthe nate of his sexual

“Alexander held women in higher regard than di most of his contempt,
including the inllectals of the Greek speaking Wold. Histor Aristo, for
example, proclaimed the subordine role of women in Hellenic clue as
‘tdated by nature: a man’s itu was displayed dough leading: a woman's
‘trough folowing * The philosopher pinta ou with some pide, however, that
the Grech, unlike the bararan, didnot wea a woman as if she wore a slave. On
the contrary, be boasted, Greck men showed a genuine appreciation for &
‘Woman's beauty, compliance, and capacity for work”

“Alexander's atitude toward women was, forthe most pa, uncommonly
considerate and appreciative, In Asa Moe he restored Queen Ada of Catia 0
hor tone. Sisygambis, the Pesian qucen mother, was permited 10 ride in
splendor withthe Macedonian king while he was'sll at war with her som
Alexander also addessed both Ada and Sisjgambis as “mothe.” Thomas
‘Weal has suggested that the proud Sisygambts served in Asia "a srogate
COlympss without he sound snd he fury” This could very well have been the

During the sck of Thebes Alexander found it necessary to gran immunity to
scenain Toclei, who had murdered ope of his officer afte the drunken man
‘had raped and robbed her." In fact, Alexander apparent cefused to take sexual
‘vantage of any ofthe tens of thousands of women eyptured during his aves
Instead. be is aid, Fr instance to have waked pst te most alurigg of Persian
‘Women aif they were “ifles images cutout of sone” (P21).

“Alexander's unconventional behavir inthe presence of women hasbeen the
source of abundant speculation concerning his Sexuality? Many scholars have


Page 77, Instance 0, Class: Text
assumed that Alesander and his ielog frend Hephaestion were lovers, at least
‘luring thee younger years. Alexander was fond of comparing them to Achilles
‘and Paoelus inthe tad, and since it was generally assumed in his on dy hat
{his celebrated Homeric tlasonship was "homosexual. Alexander's
encouragement ofthe analogy might very well adcatea sina band Between
‘imself and Hephaestion.”

Tn 34 the hing is repoted 10 have crowned the tomb of Achilles at Toy
‘while Hephaestion placed a wreath on the tomb of Parl.” A yeu later ater
‘he bate of sus in 333, Sisygambis presuming ha the lle ofthe two men Was
the king, inadverenly made obeisance to Hephaeston rather than Alexander
King Alexander graciously reassured a mortified Sisygambis that she had made
‘no mistake, "Tor Hephsestion was alo an Alexa” (4.2.12.

“Though the vichsiudes of would conquest Alexander's aller ego,
Hephacston, remained unequivocally supportive of the king. and ultimately
‘bocume his only real confidant” Alexander permed! Hepaestion to feud
‘etsnal reports fom hs mother on the state of affairs in Europe, and we know
{hat Hephaestion was close enough to Alexander 10 earn Olympiss' suspicion
and camity. Hephueston’s loyalty to Alexander was rewarded with onors.
alminating ia his appoinumeat as second in command. But Alexander's
Patroctus woul drink inwelf o death in 324 under circumstances remarkably
Sil to those that would sutound the King’s wa demise: The loss devastated
‘Alexander

‘ny dear companion has perished

Patoklos

‘whom Toved Heyond all ter companions

swell

ssmy own life

dL 1880-2)
‘There i evidence of “insttuonlized pederasty” in Macedonian cout ices."
and soit would have been unlikely fo either Olympia or Philip (ho seems to
hive consorted with anything ambulatory) to objet to tenuous toa youthful
safre de cocur between Alexander and Hephaestion. Parental concern would
aly aise if Aletander failed to show a sexual inet in Women at the
appropiate tine. When he tecame king. Alexander would be expected 19
‘roducean eirto the one. Any deficiency i this respect would be of serious
Concern to all, A curious ancedote atibuted to Theopastus, a disciple of
‘Aisle, who accompanied the philosopher to Macedonia and probably served
4s his assistant at Miezs, eats to Alexander's sexual.” Acconding to this
‘zcount, both Olympis and Philp expressed concern over Alexander's
Inference to women, They therefore aanged a sexual encounter between
‘Alexander and seductive Tessalian courte naned Callceina, Theophrastus
says that “Olympias often bogged him to have intercourse with Callxeina™
‘sppaceily to no avail. Alexander Bimself i reputed to have said tht "i was


Page 77, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘There i evidence of “insttuonlized pederasty” in Macedonian cout ices."
and soit would have been unlikely fo either Olympia or Philip (ho seems to
hive consorted with anything ambulatory) to objet to tenuous toa youthful
safre de cocur between Alexander and Hephaestion. Parental concern would
aly aise if Aletander failed to show a sexual inet in Women at the
appropiate tine. When he tecame king. Alexander would be expected 19
‘roducean eirto the one. Any deficiency i this respect would be of serious
Concern to all, A curious ancedote atibuted to Theopastus, a disciple of
‘Aisle, who accompanied the philosopher to Macedonia and probably served
4s his assistant at Miezs, eats to Alexander's sexual.” Acconding to this
‘zcount, both Olympis and Philp expressed concern over Alexander's
Indiference 19 women. They therefore aranged a sexual encounter between
‘Alexander and seductive Tessalian courte naned Callceina, Theophrastus
says that “Olympias often bogged him to have intercourse with Callxeina™
‘sppaceily to no avail. Alexander Bimself i reputed to have said tht "i was


Page 77, Instance 4, Class: Text
assumed that Alexander and his lifelong friend Hephaestion were lover, atleast
‘luring thee younger years. Alexander was fond of comparing them to Achilles
‘and Paoelus inthe tad, and since it was generally assumed in his on dy hat
{his celebrated Homeric tlasonship was "homosexual. Alexander's
encouragement ofthe analogy might very well adcatea sina band Between
‘imself and Hephaestion.”

Tn 34 the hing is repoted 10 have crowned the tomb of Achilles at Toy
‘while Hephaestion placed a wreath on the tomb of Parl.” A yeu later ater
‘he bate of sus in 333, Sisygambis presuming ha the lle ofthe two men Was
the king, inadverenly made obeisance to Hephaeston rather than Alexander
King Alenander graciously reassured a mortified Sisygambie tat she had nade
‘no mistake, "Tor Hephsestion was alo an Alexa” (4.2.12.

“Though the vichsiudes of would conquest Alexander's aller ego,
Hephacston, remained unequivocally supportive of the king. and ultimately
‘ocame his ony real confidant” Alexander permitted Hephaestion to read
‘etsnal reports fom hs mother on the state of affairs in Europe, and we know
{hat Hephaestion was close enough to Alexander 10 earn Olympiss' suspicion
and camity. Hephueston’s loyalty to Alexander was rewarded with onors.
alminating ia his appoinumeat as second in command. But Alexander's
Paotus would drink binwlf wo deuth in 324 under circumstances remarkably
Sil to those that would sutound the King’s wa demise: The loss devastated


Page 78, Instance 0, Class: Text
sleep and sexual intercourse which moe than anything els, reminded him hat
‘ho Was moa (P22.6)"" He may simply have been ab individual for wham ex
‘was nota issue of paramount cancer, or he may have suppresed his own
sexual urge oe he may in fact have been homosexual

“Alexander's affair With Basin, the Tet womn in whom he Ses to have
‘had special interes, occurred when he was in is early twenties and resulted in
the bith ofan illegitimate son callod Heracles Batsne, wo was pethaps
yeas the Senior of Alexander, was the daughier of the Peesan tap
‘Anabazus” who ‘would prove useful to lender inthe fue. This
{elaoosbip, perhaps Alexander's fist sexual experience with « woman, bad
‘een urged on by Parmenio, his chit adviser ia Asia”

Given all ofthe opportunity at is disposal, Alexander peoved tobe a eluant
‘oterosexul. His Tus mariage, 10 Rotane, did not ake place uni] Alexander
‘was 27 yeas old. Phttch (477) cally it “a love match,” but practical
‘Considerations involving Alexandr’ ute plans were certainly at stake atthe
tine His second and thd wives, both maried during the yeur before be ded
‘Were elaives of formes Persian kings, ad his nteatons were hlatanly political
‘Alexander didnot ive to see his ony legitimate ber bor. Roxane gave bith
‘boy called Alexander (1V) sho after the king's death in 323°" Roxane, her
{eenage son Alexander, and the ileptinate Heracles woul ll perish ding the
‘wars of auccesson,

you were fost youn fom life

nd have let mea widow in your house

out boy is only a baby
Tibia

fe

wit

come of age

UL 24TS-8)
"The wars came about ia large prt because of Aleander’s inability o produce &
saccesor during his own letine. AR’ Bur ays of his,

[ojae cannot but seflct that this is the most crushing evidenoe of

‘Alexander's inesponsiility. His ideals were purely seifcented. It gave

‘him pleasure and served his reat pupose—fane—to be muicen this

fiends, atenive to his wounded, generous on oecasion toa bvave and

atuactive enemy: but his felon lack of interest in the succession,
especially in view of his own reehessness, shows an utr caclessbess

‘what happened wo Asia, Greece or Macedon once he wis gone.


Page 78, Instance 1, Class: Text
UL 24.725-8)
The wats came about in lrg pat because of Alexander's inability to produce &
sccessor during his wa ifetine. AR Bur sys ofthis,
[ojae cannot but seflct that this is the most crushing evidenoe of
‘Alexander's inesponsiility. His ideals were purely seifcented. It gave
‘him pleasure and served his reat pupose—fane—to be muicen this
fiends, atenive to his wounded, generous on oecasion toa bvave and
atuactive enemy: but his felon lack of interest in the succession,
especially in view of his own reehessness, shows an utr caclessbess
‘what happened wo Asia, Greece or Macedon once he wis gone.


Page 78, Instance 4, Class: Text
sleep and sexual intercourse which more than anything else, reminded him that
‘ho Was moa (P22.6)"" He may simply have been ab individual for wham ex
‘was nota issue of paramount cancer, or he may have suppresed his own
sexual urge oe he may in fact have been homosexual

“Alexander's affair With Basin, the Tet womn in whom he Ses to have
‘had special interes, occurred when he was in is early twenties and resulted in
the bith ofan illegitimate son callod Heracles Batsne, wo was pethaps
years the senior of Alenander, was the daughter of the Persian stp
‘Anabazus” who ‘would prove useful to lender inthe fue. This
{elaoosbip, perhaps Alexander's fist sexual experience with « woman, bad
‘een urged on by Parmenio, his chit adviser ia Asia”

Given all ofthe opportunity at is disposal, Alexander peoved tobe a eluant
‘oterosexul. His Tus mariage, 10 Rotane, did not ake place uni] Alexander
‘was 27 yeas old. Phttch (477) cally it “a love match,” but practical
‘Considerations involving Alexandr’ ute plans were certainly at stake atthe
tine His second and thd wives, both maried during the yeur before be ded
‘Were elaives of formes Persian kings, ad his nteatons were hlatanly political
‘Alexander didnot ive to see his ony legitimate ber bor. Roxane gave bith
‘boy called Alexander (1V) sho after the king's death in 323°" Roxane, her
{eenage son Alexander, and the ileptinate Heracles woul ll perish ding the
‘wars of auccesson,


Page 79, Instance 0, Class: Text
ALEXANDER AT THE HELLESPONT (334 BC)
‘Alexander marched fom Pella inthe early sping of 334, having Left Antipas as
his viceroy in charge of Maccdonian and Greek aus. Afer paring below
‘Mount Pangacum, with is orice of Dionysus, and skiing Amphipolis
‘Alexander began replicaling. in vevetse, the route taken by Xerxes in his nvsion
fof Greece during the Persian Wars hereby contiming Macedonian propaganda
that thie was a war of revenge.”

His expeditionary force of shout 3,000 foot soldits and 5.100 horsemen
avved i the Gallol peninsula after atwenty-day mach of aout 300 les
Hiom Pella" The main body of uoops, under Pameni, crossed from Sestos in
Europe i Abydos in Asia, which had been Nees’ point of departure in he ith
century BC. The king however, observing his ow proses, proceeded down the
Southern tip ofthe pennvula to Elseus, where Agametanon i sad to have sed
Hom Europe with his Greek armada inthe Trojan Wat. Alexander had decided 0
etuflec t Troy before taking up ans spans the Persians The kg, ees,
aids much tention to Cli, the Muse of istry. ashe did to Callie, the Muse
{or horoic epics. His istvial consciousness in sich mates was meticulous.

Particulars also seve the compeebensiveness of Alexander's religiosity, as
‘wells his passion to emulate the great hoes. Before seting sail be saree it
the Thracian Chersonese to Protea, Thesslan patiipat in the Trojan
‘War, who enjoyed everlasting fame Because he was the fist se foot on Asa
soil Protea, however, had been killed onthe spot and Alexander sified
this om ia the hope of avoiding the same fate

Teas Aletander’s turn on stage inthe oscillating drama of cont between
Greeks and Asians. Fairskinned, with blondish hair and x pencting gaze
‘Alexander was clean-shaven and muscular, but slighly less than average in
‘ight His hued git and rapid speech exuded an ara of destiny and high
‘adventure. Plutarch tls ux “The best likeness of Alexander which has been
reserved for uss toe ound in the statues sculped by Lysipps, the only artist
‘whom Alexander considered worthy to represent him. Alexander possessed &
‘umber of individual features which many of Lysis’ followers ater Wed 19
‘produce, for example the psse a the neck which Wasted sigh tothe let
fF scorn melting lok in his eyes, and the ast as exactly caught these
peculiar C.1-2)

‘enocrtes, who is associated withthe Lysippean schoo, desrbes qualities
in the work of the muster tht may help 10 explain his special appeal to
‘Alexander

‘Lysippus is sido have consibued greatly to the at of onze statuary by

seprcneating the details ofthe hat and by making his heads smaller han

the old scuptrs used to do, and is bodes tore slender and fr, give
bis sates the appearance of greater height he used commonly to ay thal

‘whetes his predecesors had made men as they really were, he made theta

as they appeared tobe

(Pliny HV 34.65)


Page 80, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘This ski might have been pariculaly atactve to Alexander, who, as
‘mentioned, was slighly shorter than mest me, but who was also aware, Uke
‘Xenophon's Cyrus, ha ilision could compensate fr valiy.°°

During the crossing the king sasifice a bll to Poseidon and, lke Xerxes,
poured lation fom a golden cup. This Hiation was in honor ofthe Nevis
{he sex-aymphs who were his ancestors dough Olympas. At one poi he ook
the helm of the royal lgship from Menoetus (who bore the same name a
Pao” father in the ad, bt as the coastline emerged he changed into fll
Suite armoe and was the fst wo leap fom the ship and bul his spea into the
shove. He was announcing, in disney Homeric fashion, "that he ecived Asia
Tom the gos as a spear- won prize” (D.17.17.2."

"Tyee the goddevs of fortune, wis with him. The Persian fleet had not yt
assemble forthe sling Season, andthe emteexpeditonay force pused oer
“unchallenged Alexander landed in what was Blived to be the ald "haboe of
the Achaea” spoken of inthe Mad. He erected alas and sacle to Zeus of
the Safe Landings (Apobatrios) Athena, and Heracles just as he had done on
the Euopean side. The young wator was placing his invasion in the custody of
these tree deities

ving this young man

twa great adel,

Thevitor

Brome

(a. 974-6)

Alexander wet dzecty wo Tioy and saciid at dhe temple of Athena His
‘Thee he dedicated his amor to the godess and eplced st Wi lis sa 1
have been used duviag the Teojan War” Alexander also took the time 19
ssevfice to Priam at the ala of Zeus of ibe Enclosures (Hetkeos), where
‘Neoptolemus the son of Achill had slain Pram ding the sack of Troy. Was
‘Alekander atoning forthe sacelege commited by his ancestor? Pethaps he Was
concerned that Pian’s sist might be waiting to strike back at oe of his
‘murderer’ unwary descendants?” This king was taking no chance,

‘At Troy Alexander was asked by a waflicker in tourist items if he wished 10
sc the Ie of Paris, who was alo alld “Alexander” in the Mad. Offend by
ny linkage with undistinguished fighter and womanizer who shaedhis mame,
‘Alexander indignantly rejected the suggestion, but ai that he would not mind
Seeing the lyre of Achilles, who sang songs celebrating the glvious deeds of
‘avemen™

‘Nerser had saeriiced 1,000 cows to Ana at Toy. but Alexander could mt
tor to match the Great King’s prand gesture. Alexander began his reign faced
‘with S0Oalet deficit et by is fate Four handed an forty taleats bad
‘own scaled though the sale of eptves at Thebes, and this helped somewhat
‘bu his nancial sition remained precatious because of his coatinuing
‘bliguion to meet the expenses incurred when muting a large amy inthe


Page 80, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘This ski might have been pariculaly atactve to Alexander, who, as
‘mentioned, was slighly shorter than mest me, but who was also aware, Uke
‘Xenophon's Cyrus, ha ilision could compensate fr valiy.°°

During the crossing the king sasifice a bll to Poseidon and, lke Xerxes,
poured lation fom a golden cup. This Hiation was in honor ofthe Nevis
{he sex-aymphs who were his ancestors dough Olympas. At one poi he ook
the helm of the royal lgship from Menoetus (who bore the same name a
Pao” father in the ad, bt as the coastline emerged he changed into fll
Suite armoe and was the fst wo leap fom the ship and bul his spea into the
shove. He was announcing, in disney Homeric fashion, "that he ecived Asia
Tom the gos as a spear- won prize” (D.17.17.2."

"Tyee the goddevs of fortune, wis with him. The Persian fleet had not yt
assemble forthe sling Season, andthe emteexpeditonay force pused oer
“unchallenged Alexander landed in what was Blived to be the ald "haboe of
the Achaea” spoken of inthe Mad. He erected alas and sacle to Zeus of
the Safe Landings (Apobatrios) Athena, and Heracles just as he had done on
the Euopean side. The young wator was placing his invasion in the custody of
these tree deities


Page 80, Instance 3, Class: Text
Alsanter went Gevetiy to "Teoy snd careificed at the temple of Atsenn Iss.
‘Thee he dedicated his amor to the godess and eplced st Wi lis sa 1
have been used duviag the Teojan War” Alexander also took the time 19
ssevfice to Priam at the ala of Zeus of ibe Enclosures (Hetkeos), where
‘Neoptolenu the son of Achilles, ad slain Priam ding the sac of Troy, Was
‘Alekander atoning forthe sacelege commited by his ancestor? Pethaps he Was
concerned that Pian’s sist might be waiting to strike back at oe of his
‘murderer’ unwary descendants?” This king was taking no chance,

‘At Troy Alexander was asked by a waflicker in tourist items if he wished 10
sc the Ie of Paris, who was alo alld “Alexander” in the Mad. Offend by
ny linkage with undistinguished fighter and womanizer who shaedhis mame,
‘Alexander indignantly sejeced the suggestion, but said that he would not mind
Seeing the lyre of Achilles, who sang songs celebrating the glvious deeds of
‘avemen™

‘Nerser had saeriiced 1,000 cows to Ana at Toy. but Alexander could mt
tor to match the Great King’s prand gesture. Alexander began his reign faced
‘with S0Oalet deficit et by is fate Four handed an forty taleats bad
‘own scaled though the sale of eptves at Thebes, and this helped somewhat
‘bu his nancial sition remained precatious because of his coatinuing
‘bliguion to meet the expenses incurred when muting a large amy inthe


Page 81, Instance 0, Class: Text
Companions, When sed what he bad left for hist, Alsandr epi
caval My ope" (P18.

"The flcn st of Yorn satapof Phrygia, wbich ay ouside the temple
of Aten a it, mvedArslade frst ea mph for hepato in
‘near tre. This was aut welcone pedo. Aland hued rejoin
Suive son and stra, to grect Alexander and tempt to persuade in Yo
‘ype they Pasa secoun ss. at Alvan anipted he
‘vorian’s isso nd sore bythe gods inthe prexnc ofthe ptoner athe
‘would do the opposite of whatever Ananinenessaked™- When the ase
[Anasinens asd ht the king destoy the ety. Alexander, bund by his oth
{perhaps iedaced by handme be, ak ave aughed aod marched
‘unpaid his fellow ctzesdaiaed a ste othe bison at Olynpe
wat alo ander Pein cont, Rather tani having the hy acd, he
Inu decidd to tow int lot with Alexandr, ad the tng dah
2 aml onngent to “iterate howe Goats fam Peran ove. The
‘hon atin tek st have hee spied nd sted by the hae in
‘tthe diy, wh ef oy Chars Sctnan as probaly “the sds and
‘not pine ofl Meteranean wine go" was his sagan genital,
{tcl rogues wbestarow when th Gn” moved abou. TRE cul of
Prispus spread pil roushou the Mediranean wold fers discovery by
‘Aetna’ wops. Tis ferUlty god, who may have been stoi Wi an
air Greek version of Dany, wax eventually incorporated into the Greek
fathcon shit som,

‘THE BATTLE OF THE GRANICUS RIVER QM BC)
Wilk he efcency of he Macedoian phan He sised punt diel
Sonfict withthe Macedonians abd proposed crchelrearh sayy thal
‘wuld force Aletader to em hoe fr Ick of ovine, Meno aso
‘ged ta the war be esd st sand ht Macedni lf shouldbe tacked.
‘The Persian sata inerpeted his suggestions a an impliation of hi military
Inferocy and sly poclained ther ruse feign any tease of
tr Monts dough Hllesponne Pung iva nthe ig ad
thee afforded some step and muy defesive pons on the est Sak
‘Alesander deployed sbout 1 000 fo soles and ame 310 hose. Tis


Page 82, Instance 0, Class: Text
army outnumbered the enemy free of about 10,000 cavalry and ,000-$,000
Greek mercenary infanuy. The Persians stationed tee 10,000 horsemen along
the bak ofthe ver"

Diodonus pictures Alevander wating 1o strike at dawn at an unopposed sver
crossing Arian, in a contradictory account, hs Patenio appealing Tor such
‘delay but Alexander responding to his arguments by saying: "All ths {know
‘armen, but I should fel ashamed if after crossing the Hellespont easily, this
ety team. hinders ws fom crossing, jus as wea. I consider this unworthy
ther ofthe psig ofthe Macedonians or of my own clr i dealing with
anges: I believe it would encourage the Persians to think themselves equal 19
fighting the Macedonians, since they have not experienced any immediate
disaster to justi their alam” (1.136-7). Alexandr, as oe might expect
prevailed

‘Alera intl cavalry charge in which twenty-five ofthe Companion of the
ing were lll, Alexander, cnspicuous bythe white plumage diaplayed on his
elmet,joined inthe assault.

‘Over is mighty head he set the well-asioned helmet

‘the plumes nodded terribly above it

L637)
‘The Pesians wore inten a slaying Alexander straightaway. and they launched a
series of cavalry charges aimed directly at him. The Persian nobility descended
fn Alexander, and series of Fete personal encounters in the Homeric mold
‘ook plac:

‘fone isto win honour in bate

the must by all means

Stand his ground suongly

‘whether be be stuck

‘Sfrike down

another

UL IL.408-10)

‘Alexander's spear broke, but Demraus of Coat suplid the king with his
‘own spear Then Alexander, seeing Milidates the so-it-law of the Persian
‘King, “charged out alone in advance of his own men, trast his lance into
‘Mithidates" face and hurled him to dhe ground” (A.118.7). Anadher Persian
‘nobleman, Rhoesakes,sheued off prt of Alexander's heloet with a biow fom
his scimitar, bu he loo was run tough by tbe King. Sptvidates the Mother of
Rhoestkes, then aprosched Alexander from te ear with his scimitar poised 19
deliver 4 moral blow when Cleius, son of Dropides, who led the Royal
‘Squuon of the Companion Cavaly, severed the Pesin's arm wih timely
‘Soke and saved the king's life.”


Page 83, Instance 0, Class: Text
Peer a ee
for this time

an

Astilleus

19.408)

‘Macedonian numbers, discipline, and superior weaponry eventually tok their
toll. dotemined charge up the iver bank ested ina fout ofthe Pesians. The
(Greek mercenaries on the Persian sie were urtounded and asked for quate, but
‘Alexander Plath ay, "puided by pasion ater than by season," ese (16
1M), slaughter ensued. The 2.000 suvivors, including an sppecisle numberof
Atdeians, were teated a6 taitors aecotding to principles adopted by the
‘Covntian League. They were pt in chains apd sen Of o Macedoata 0 Work i
the mines"

‘On the following day Alexander, whose personal courage played a significant
tole in the victory, saw toi that his own dead were given nagiicen busi
Diodorus relates hat “he hough it important by dis sot of honour to ecu in
‘ns mon greater enthusiasm to face the hazards of bate” (1721.6) Asia ells
Us that Alexander prsomll tended his wounded, "visiting each man himself,
‘taming thet wounds, asking how they were received, and along them 19
‘coun an oast of thei exploits (1165). The king ordered Lysippus 0 sulpt
‘wonze sas of the tweatfive Companions who had perished in the fst
attack: These were setup at Dium ina grouping that featured Alexandes."® All
fatets and chien a every Macedonian who ded athe Grancus wee granted
Hetime exemptions fom propenty taxes and personal services.

Fallen Persian commanders (even Greck casuals onthe Pesian side) were
ko bared with bonor. To underlie his role as avenger and hegemon of the
CCovnthian League, and perhaps in the hope thatthe Athenians would come 19
share ia the fanny ofthis 4 war of revenge, Alexander selected 300 Tul ets
‘of amor from dead Persians and ordered them toe set ack to Athens and
‘dedicated wo Athena onthe Acopolis. The atached inscription ead: “Alexander
son of Philip andthe Grok. except the Lacedaemonians.™ set up these spils
Hom the batbaians dwelling ia Asa” (A116).

“Lasury tems including purple draperies and oma drinking vessels that were
roby intended forthe Dionysia, wore sent home to Olympia. 1a tua, his
other sent Alexander a sactificercook, who was fair with al ofthe king's
ncesual religious tes, and his Bacchic obligations as well probably as a
‘eminder to her son no to neglect this pss deity”

dohonoe


Page 84, Instance 0, Class: Text
ASIA MINOR (34 BO)

“The way bal now heen made clear for the invading force, Alexander appointed &
‘Macedonian as satrap of Hellespatine Piya and the army moved inland ia 8
southwestny ection, Sazdis the most important ety inthe satay of Lyla
‘sutendered tothe king. who granted i citizenry thet “redo,” Mitines, the
Psi commander wo tuned the city and ts Weasutes over to Alexander, Was
tuested with observable honor as a adverisement of the advantages of
cooperating withthe young king

‘Alexander's guise of “iberstr” was common during this phase of bis
conquests. At Saris, he represented himself asa restorer ofthe aneient easton
that ad toen aboliahed when Cyrus the Great defested Croesus of Lydia 200
years hefoe. Alexander's court historian, Calsthenes, reminded his audio
‘hat Cyrus was the last mato eapture Sardis, "an indication that Alexander bad
‘0 objection to being compured favorably 1o the founder ofthe Achaemenid
Posian Empie. Alexander could also have claimed tat his takeover of the
‘eon was fsumption of family esponsbiis, since Like most Greeks he
fpobubly believed tha the Lydians were at ove tine ed by descendants of
Heras,

"Alexander inspected the citadel of Sardis and was thinking of building a
temple to the Macedonian Zeus Olympius somewhere inthe viinty when &
sudden thunderstorm and a pail heavy downpour seemed to center onthe
‘re ofthe ancien Lydian ings’ palace. Alexander itrpete this event tobe &
Sign from heaven and determined thatthe temple and altar be consincted
there. Croesus and the other Lydian kings before the Pesan conquest took
‘ide in the Hellsization, and this geste must have pleased the local
population. Lik is father, Alexander was a muster a publi relations

“An oligarchy protecting Persian interest at Ephesus in Tonia was overthrown,
as soon asthe news of Alexander's Victory reached Dut it). The inhabitants
‘omply esublished a democratic faction in power and began to masstcre
‘Slguchs until Alexander intervened. He put a sop to the slaughter and pledged
to support the newly insted democratic epime. ln Gresce Alexander like his
Taher odin backed olguchs and ther anidemacatic elements because
they were mote likly to serve Macedonian interests. In Asia Minor, however
‘oliguchs customarily supported Pesian policy. and so the King responded by
fsablshing democracies wherever feasible.” Alexander's polis! policies,
Tike those of his father, weve pragmatic rather than ideological

‘Alexander's interest in Ephesus, however, was not eaiely practical The
city's temple to Artemis. one of the wonders of the ancient world had been put
to the torch by a madman around the ime Alexander was bor. I fat. a rumor
‘had been civculatd tha the goddess (Who had assisted inthe bith of er i
‘other Apolo) had fied Yo ptect er temple because abe was off in Europe
‘isting atthe delivery of Alexander when te disaster occured!" The temple


Page 85, Instance 0, Class: Text
was sill under renovation in 334, and Alexander graciously offered 19
lunderesite the remaining cos. The proud Ephesians reused his offer. They di
however agree to permit Aleander to enlarge te size ofthe sated romenas, the
area of asylum!" Heracles was said 10 have done this at one time, and
‘Alexander accep thei offer in ceder to emulate the actions of is ancestor.
‘While ia Ephesus Alexander aanged to sit for Apelles of Cos, the most
enowned painter of his age. Pliny the Eller relates a intresting anoedate
‘concerning the special elatinship between the afabe poraits and Alexandee
[Apeles) was on quite good tems with Alexander the Great who
Frequently came this studio~for, as we si, he fabade by an edit that
‘is poruait shouldbe made by any eer atist—but when Alexander used
to discourse upon many aspects of painting even hough he was not well
Snformed, plies ould paitly advise fim to be it saying that be
‘was being laughed at by the boys who were grading the colors. 80
‘onfdeat was bein the power of his piilegedposion even with 3 king
‘who was otherwise ofan ase mate
(HN 3885-6)!"
“The king was apparel displeased with the intl efforts of Ape in Ephesus
‘hut gatfied bythe final product. which pictured him brandishing a thunderbolt
{in the fashion of Zeus. Lysipus objected to the religious insensitivity of such
4 ponayal (P Mor 60k), but Alexander rewarded Apelle with wen tales,
Tuerally'fune, and the punting was ceremeniusly dedicated inthe temple.
‘This pouhaps provides an early sigh of the King’s interest in the depiction of his
superhuman abuts
‘Memon, formidable adversary, managed to escape from the Persian dle
atthe Granicus. This man, whose mamesake Was sain by Achill inthe Troan
‘War! was no stranger to the king. They had met when Alexander was sill
boy. Mominon had shared the exile ofthe Persian strap Artabazus at Pella, He
ands older bohc, Meatr, had helped Arabuzus in his saapy Helespntine
Pas, and wore warded wit large estates inthe Toad. Mentor mated the
satiap's daughter Busine. and when he died, which was sometime before
‘Alexander’ invasion, arsine was marred to Mermnon Tiss the same Basie
‘who ssaidtohavehadan affair with Alexander and givenbirh his son Horace,
‘Menon and the ther survivors from the Granicus had found refuge at
‘Miles in Tonia, and Alexander marched southward toward this seaport, On the
‘way he topped at Prien to implement the policies he hd established at Ephesus
nd to combuteto'4 newly contucted temple of Athen Pols, the divine
fons of the city. His doation prod suficint to erm him the ight tobe
ecognzed asthe deicator of the temple. The iseripion, which ea be seen i
the British Museum toda." reads King Alexander set yp this temple 19
‘Athena Poias" tay have provided some consolation for the ear refusal he
thd experince at Ephesus.


Page 86, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The Corinthian League's flst of 160 ships reached the arbor t Miletus
‘before the aval ofthe 400-sal Persian navy. The Grek allies ockaded the
fntance tothe barber, while he Persians ted tole the numerically inferior
‘Grek force ito open confit onthe high Seas. Pamenio was inclined wo oblige
them, He pointed ou an eagle perched onthe shore that he inrpeted 32g
favorable fora aval engagenent, and even personally volunteered to participate
in he stack. Alexander, wowisd bout the adverse effets of @ major nuval
eteat, ay well as the possibility af excessive losses in such an operation,
Suggested that Pumenio had misineepeed the omen The eagle Was
lungestionaby on Alexander's ide, but resting o shore. Therefore, be reasoned,
ie would be from the shore thatthe Persian lest would be fete."

‘Alexander besieged Miletus while the Greck fet prevented the Persian navy
fiom providing any asistance othe defenders ofthe ity. Miletus Fel and the
Foyeigners who failed to escape Were iter led or enslaved. Among thse who
ccaped were 300 Greck mercenaries, who managed fo ee to neaby ind
land wore prepared to fight to the last man. Arian says that Alexander "was
Sized wth pty Tor them, a ine, loyal solders. and made tems with them on
‘hich they should join his forces” (1.19.6). Alexander's appreciation af their
Valor is undoubtedly historia, but be must also have realized that hie aes
tteatment of Greek mercenaries atthe Granius had only encouriged ster
‘resistance It would clearly be more adVantageous to encourage them to fight on
‘is behall. The Milsians were granted amnesty because their ancestors bad
played acricaloleinthestugsle agains the Persians a century anda hal ere
1K might have seemed embarrassingly inconsistent to punish city whose
‘esiatance fo the Great King beled o spk the Persian Ws.

‘Soon aftr his sucess at Miletus Alexander decided to disband the ene
lcd feet. This rtal decision was tflunced by the fac tht the Met a
expensive to mainun, yt to small tobe effective against the Persians in open
‘waters. Furthermore the king seems to have been unsuse of the loyalty of many
fof his Greck allies He therefore dismised all but afew transport ships, which
included twenty Athenian versely whose retention guarameed tat city's
continued coopersion. Alexander decided to dal withthe Persian navy by
‘denying its ships acess o any haboe and thus “to overcome the ships fom dy
land” (A.1.20.1. I was a calculated isk, predicated on Alexander's ability 10
contol each ad every pot on the eastem shores ofthe Mediteranean

‘On his march south 1 Halicanassus (Bodrum), the capital of Cai
Alexandr wat met by Ads," a member of the stp royal house and site of
the now dead Pirodarus. Ada who bad once been queen hd been deposed by
Pixodarus. She now sought to reguin ber throne with Alexander's help. HE
lunhesitatingly recognized her as queen and accepted her offer to adopt him 2s
‘or son'” Theizlaonship became most Siendly and thee age reps of Ada
Sending delicacies and swectneats to the king—all remarkably reminiscent of
Olympss’ smugglings when Alexander was under the harsh tutelage of
‘Leoides. The restoration of Ada probably pleased most Cavians, who had een
Podaras succumb to" Persian contol, This would. mike i posible for


Page 87, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander to assume the done without opposition when Ada died Ie was
‘ypical of is muster diplomuy.

Halicarnassus appeared to be impregnable. It had thee citadel, massive
walls a huge moat, nd an unopposed fle o supply is defenders. Alexander's
Fowces filed in the moat but were subjected wo spate svtis from the ity that
‘were aimed at desuoying Alexander's siege equipment. The kins's men also
experienced considerable difficulty in their temps to beach the wall nd entet
the city. At one point, Arian tess, “Iwo soldiers of] Pedieas" battalion.
‘bivouacked and drinking together, were cach bowsing of his own prowess and
actions: Hvaly ase, asited by the beating fumes of wine: so they amed
‘emselves and atacked the wall” (2.1). The Bghting was so ferocious that in
its aftermath Alexander was forced to ask fr tue to remeve and buy his
dead rae occurence during Bis cater

Tn the final conflict outside the walls Alexanders rps were faced with
lssser unl they were joined y a hitherto iastve batalion of Philip's
veterans, who reversed the outcome ofthe bate." Menon, who bad been
ppoinied admiral and commanderinehiet of the Anatolian coast, led the
efense of the city with imagination and lan, but eventually he was forced 19
Shandon it and lave his garisoa ia the list of the te citadel Alexapder
ial his own garison in the other two citadel by the harbor, but be was
Inclined wo leave Well enough alone saber than put his entre force tough
another log and demoralizing siege. He left cominget of uoops behind to deal
‘With te semalning enemy. Ts operation dragged on into 332,

‘Ada, who had personally assisted in the siege of Halcarnasss and was called
“Me” by Alexandr, was tecognized as the savap of Cara by him
‘Alexander became ber adopted son and heir to the kingdom

‘Those men who had marvid jst before the invasion began were sent back
home on leave by the King. Avtian claims that “Alexander gained as much
populaity by this act among the Macedonians a by any ote” (1242) eas
‘lant tactic. These young heroes would ofcourse, be excellent disemiators
‘of propaganda about Alexander's efforts in Asia spd could be counted upon 1
do their best to sire a fresh supply of Macedonians for Tutte explo.
‘Accompanying officers were ordered To retum wih able-bodied Macedonians as
‘wel a ational oops trom the Pelopomness.

Parenio was instructed o return to Suds withthe foreign detachments and
to rin the king at Goedium i the speintime. The woops oa furlough and the
fresh recruits were scheduled to rendezvous in Goedium as well. Meanwhile
‘Alexander. accompanied by a smaller mobile force stout establish conta
‘over the southern cout of Asia Minor as far ax Cilicia, His winter was spent
Seizing harbors and subduing recalciant ides in the region,

‘One diy, while Alexander was nipping at Hliamssus, an incident occurred
‘hat he king thought serous enough to cal o Ansan’ tention. A twitering
‘Swallow hal ctled over Alexanders ead, and ten began lighting here and
‘hereon his bed and chatering louly enough to distur the king's sleep. The
King waved bis hand at the Bird, but instead of flying away the swallow perched


Page 88, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘on Alexander's head and stayed there until he was fully awakened. Aristander
Siggesod tat this represented a conspizacy soon to come to ight tht Would
involve one of Alexander's fends"

‘At Phaselis Alexander received alarming aews fiom Panmenio that lent
credence 1b Aistander's prophecy. Parmenioanfrme him that he had eaprred
‘messenger rom the Persia king Who was prepared to offer 1000 god talents
find the Macedonian tone to Alexander the Lynoesian for mdering
“Alexander. When bought before the king the messenger recite the same story
ihe hd told Parmenio, The Lyncestin had apparently been meioned to the
Great King a a willing assassin ofthe Macedonian king. even though be bad
‘een holdin high favor by. Alexander since prolamin him King of the day
Plilip was murdeved. Now in charge ofthe Tessalaneavaley, he served under
Parmenio. This was a serous mater. Aletander had alveady been warmed about
‘Alexander tbe Lyacestianby Olymplas. The king surmonod his clase ends 19
‘ear ther opinions regarding the stustion. They registered profound ditt for
this “Son of Acropus” and expressed alarm at his being place in charg of the
‘Thessalian caval. Their advice Was Uo "gt Hd OF hu ab son as possible,
before he Became more popular with he Thssllans and secured their lp for &
evolution” (A125) Alexander Sent a Macedonian commander and some
five guides to instruct Parmenio to anest and imprison Alexander the
‘Tyncestan. This was accomplished, but perhaps Because he Was the SominaW
of Amipatet' the accused Was spared execution for approximately tice yeu.

Inthe muketplace at Phase, Alexander noticed "a satue Which had been
rected in honour of Theodects [a agedian who had bee end of Anstot)
‘Tomer cz ofthe place. One evening afer dinner when he [Alexandr] bad
drunk well be had the impulse to pay a conivaluibute to his (Theodecs'}
“ssociation with Arstode and with philosophy. abd soe lea band of revellers
tothe sate and crowned it with a gatlnd” (P17),

He sal

his

smenymaking

(ba. 381)
‘Aer Phases Alexander moved along the coast toward Panphylia. AC one
Jumetre he sent most of his toops up the fae of mountsn and across is
Tights by way of new road, while Be anda small pay attempted to negotiate
the coatine along the natow ledges below. Without te stons ponbedly wind
‘hat sited the water outward, thereby lowering the level ofthe sa enough to


Page 89, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘THE GORDIAN KNOT (333 BC)

‘With his newlywed Soldiers oa furlough, Alexander kept his appointment with
Parmerio and his reinforcements at Gordium (te capt of ancient Physi)
sometime in the spring of 33. Several Athenian envoys also atived with an
Sppeal fr the king to fice the Athenians eapured atthe Gries. Alexander
{eftsed to grant heir request, ut sid that they might approach io again when
‘Gucumstances were more favorable. Artian sys, "Alexander did at dik it se
‘withthe Persian war sili progress, relax smiation ofthe Greeks who dd
‘ot scrupe to ight forthe barbarians apainet Greece” (129)

‘Meunwhile, the Persian feet under Memon had begun 4 reconguest ofthe
Islands inthe Aegean Tis Was designed io seve asthe pelude to adie tack
‘on Macedonia. Mempon captured Chios and all of Lestos exept for Mylene,
‘hich be was inthe process of assaulting when e suddenly fll land died
Alexander had become so appichonsive over Memnon's activities that he
‘assembled a new flee of his om, abd sent money home to bose his couay's
efenss, Meninon’s plans caused Alexander “no litle anxiety” (D.17.314)
‘because a large-scale invasion might result inthe ecall ofthe ene expedition
‘norde to defend the homeland. Alexander was therefore enormously relieved to
leam of this worthy opponents demise. In hs Biography ofthe king. Ulich
Wileken estimates that “[Memnon's} deat at this moment was the pestst
stroke of luck in Alexander’ life and no one recognised this mae fll han
‘Alexander™"*

‘AT Govdium Alexander “was sized with a longing” (pothos) to visit a
legendary wagon on the acropolis dedicated 10 Zeus Bases.

designed

tomake me

(Ba. 495)

‘This vehicle was sid wo have cated Midas, the founder of the Phrygian
nasty, to Gorium shorty after an oracle had proclaimed tht 4 new king
‘Would he ought othe Phrygian in jst such a ashion. The wagon's yoke Was
‘ound to pole with large complex knot of corel bak (or vine ewig) without
Vinhle ends It was therefore vitally impossible to uate. According to loeal
legend the man who untied the knot woul ule all of Asia butt tha point no
‘one had heen able a solve the poblem. This consideration, and the coinidetal
‘etsonal testo those who figured inthe legend, made the Gordian knot an
[tense challenge to Alexandr.

‘ete sa man who wishes to be above al thers

‘who wishes to hold power overall

and tobe lord ofall,

eee cir orders


Page 90, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘will ont
obey

im

UL 1287-9)

‘Macedonians believed thit this same Midas once lived in the region where
‘Alexandr had studi under Aristotle Inthe Macedonian tadion, Mids was
‘dsplaced from the foothills of the Bennium range by Peiicss 1, one of
‘Alexander's ancestors. Midas, then a reugee, led is “Beigians” to Asia where
‘they became known as Phrygian. The migration itself is hstvcal”” and the
Phiygian compecion must have heighlened the king's intrest. but his primary
concer was undoubtedly the prestige to be gained fom succeeding where all
‘thers had fle.

‘As mentioned in the Preface to this wovk, there are to difereat versions of
the sory of Alexander and the problem ofthe Goedian knot Tn one account
‘which can be waco to Aristobuls, the king stues the problem and emoves the
dowel holding the knot in place.” This ingenious gambit exposes the rope-cads
enabling bm to proceed with the unzaeling. Inthe alemative, beter known
Nersion, an exasperated Alexander is unsuccessful in every legitimate
tempt."

is whole boty

drenched with sweat

‘while

st neay

quietly

‘watching

(a. 620-2),
Faced with he specter of conspicuous failure, Alexander lashes the knot in 60
‘with his sword

‘We cannot be certain if ether ofthese versions is istovcal, but both are
plausible and each ints own way eves something about the man. There is 0
‘question that Alexander posersed extnorinary powers of concenation and
‘spoaded wo “impossible” challenges with exceptional insight Thus, the Version
{old by Arstobuls is credible fora man of bis bly

You ate clever

very

but

‘where


Page 90, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘Macedonians believed thit this same Midas once lived in the region where
‘Alexandr had studi under Aristotle Inthe Macedonian tadion, Mids was
‘dsplaced from the foothills of the Bennium range by Peiicss 1, one of
‘Alexander's ancestors. Midas, then a reugee, led is “Beigians” to Asia where
‘they became known as Phrygian. The migration itself is hstvcal”” and the
Pinyzlan connection must have heightened the king's iteses. but his primary
concern was undoubtedly the prestige to be gained from succeeding whee all
‘thers had fle.

‘As mentioned in the Preface to this work, tere are wo diferent versions of
the sory of Alexander and the problem ofthe Goedian knot Tn one account
‘which can be waco to Aristobuls, the king stues the problem and emoves the
dowel holding the knot in place.” This ingenious gambit exposes the rope-cads
enabling bm to proceed with the unzaeling. Inthe alemative, beter known
Nersion, an exasperated Alexander is unsuccessful in every legitimate
attempt"


Page 91, Instance 0, Class: Text
(Ba 655)
(On the other hand, Alexander was a man incapable of shagging his shoulders
and walking avay fom an unsuccesfl eff. If ab rest of several fue
tempts, he was fasted and angry, be might very well have decided that &
‘den stoke ofthe sword would vecue bin from public emmarrassmen.

“Alexandr as eager to be convinced ha he had pased he tx ad filled
the race and his couriers Were ansious to provide hi wit such eassurances
‘Thunder an ighng onthe same evening Was intrpeted by Alexander and his
cers ss signal of divine approbation, °3o Alexander in thanksgiving offered
Saestce (the) nextday t whatever gods had shown the signs and the way 10
Undo the nor” (A238).

‘Celestial Mashes and rumblings are elated to Dionysus as well as Zeus,
however, and need not signify approval. Semele war cremated while bearing
Dionysus and te incendiary element san ineral part of his double birth. On
‘he night before she was marie to Philip, Olympias Is said vo have "reamed
that there was cash of thunder, that er wom was struck bya thunderbolt and
‘at there followed blinding lsh from which 4 prea sheet of fame blazed up
and spread far and wie befce it finally dod away” (P.2.3). Philip might have
Intespeted this reverie as testimony to his Sexual prowess ut Olympis Would
‘have con i it the divine oxgins ofthe mal child she hoped to bea, who Would
thus enjoy generis similar tothe gd she worshipped.

midived by ie

‘elvered

bythe ighning's Bast,

a3)
Phy was the heartland of Dionysiac worship Asia It was believed to be the
hr of the god who enjoyed confounding heroes and mocking ther sll
assurance. Alevander thought he ad wiumpbed and boped that hose around im
‘Would Sc his pesfoemance as divinely inspied. Indeed his iviacbltysoemed
to remain intact, but Alexander's bri (or subterfuge) veld the spi ofthe
enteric

“Aller Goatium Alexander headed for Ancyra (modem Ankara) some 50 mies
to the northeast, whete cmssvis fom Paphlagona submtid to hin and
‘equested that his amy bypass thst terior. Alexander agreed, He had not
planned to conquer this af anyway because of sts dificult tea, Bat his
‘decision had move to do with hs intention to rush south forthe Taurus passes
‘nd Cilicia

“Marching soutess fom Ancya, he pase through Cappadocia. While there
te appointed x native as satrap. This action provided some reli frat aleady
‘overburdened administrative sal and demonstrated Alexander's willingness 10
Uulize native talent at high levels in his command siuctue, Like Philip
‘Alexandr never let ethnocenieproviacalism prevent him fom achieving his


Page 91, Instance 3, Class: Text
Sy the pening § blast
a3)
Phy was the heartland of Dionysiac worship Asia It was believed to be the
hr of the god who enjoyed confounding heroes and mocking ther sll
assurance. Alevander thought he ad wiumpbed and boped that hose around im
‘Would Sc his pesfoemance as divinely inspied. Indeed his iviacbltysoemed
to remain intact, but Alexander's bri (or subterfuge) veld the spi ofthe
enteric
“Aller Goatium Alexander headed for Ancyra (modem Ankara) some 50 mies
to the northeast, whete cmssvis fom Paphlagona submtid to hin and
‘equested that his amy bypass thst terior. Alexander agreed, He had not
planned to conquer this af anyway because of sts dificult tea, Bat his
‘decision had move to do with hs intention to rush south forthe Taurus passes
‘nd Cilicia
“Marching soutess fom Ancya, he pase through Cappadocia. While there
te appointed x native as satrap. This action provided some reli frat aleady
‘overburdened administrative sal and demonstrated Alexander's willingness 10
Uulize native talent at high levels in his command siuctue, Like Philip
‘Alexandr never let ethnocenieproviacalism prevent him fom achieving his


Page 92, Instance 0, Class: Text
objectives. However, his appointment of «barbarian must have raised the
‘ystrows of at est some ofthe old guard Macodonans,

‘Ase loked foward tothe upcoming confit, Alexander prbsblyrecaled
that Xenophon had witen tat the Cilician Gates were virally impassable if
they were manned.” The defile coud have been defended indefinitely by &
‘handful of men, bu to Alenanders astonishment its Pesan defenders fed at his
spgoach The case of this tactic was ost key the experience of sues, the
Psian satrap of Cilicia, at the Granicus. His expenonce had taught him 10
appreciate the wisdom of Memos advice to avoid dieetconfontation ith
‘Alexander. Whatever the season, the abandonment of the Gates allowed
‘Alexander to descend ito Cilicia and travel toward Tarsus at bvisk pace
‘Reports had reached Alexander that Arsines intended o sack the ety and eaty
‘ff the treasury. The king raced ahead to prevent Arsumes from doing any
damage, and entered the eit intime. Anoter victory Was his

Belo he could press on, however, be wast face an unexpected tet. as
July of 333, and Alexander—sweat), exhausted, and pehaps suffering from an
‘upertespiatry infection plunged into the sey waters ofthe Cydnus River
‘cleanse and eftesh himwelf. The shock ofthe water alongwith his por health,
‘ought on hill Ut Left the King slspess with a violem fever." Because of
the gravity of his condition dhe coun physicians were reluctant co suggest a
‘emady. Should the king di, they might be bold responsible for his deat Only
Philip the Acarnanian’** a man who Arian says "was very much trusted in
‘medical mates and in general enjoyed honour i the amy" cae Frward with
‘Yecommendation (48) Philp ad looked after Alexander snc the king Was &
‘oy, and when the physician proposed a stons purge, Alexander, who according
10 Curtis, “could oleate anything more realy than delay.” acceped (3.63)
‘While Philip was basy peparag his potion, a leer arived from Parmenio
warning Alexander tat Pulp had heen ibe by the Persian king o poison him,
‘When Pip retumed the king handed bir tht eter read as Alecander dak
fiom the cup. It was vaky busines, but superb panache on Alexander's pat
Plilip responded by advising the king tate would eventually recover I be
followed his isitions.

‘Curius tes us at afer having drunk the medicine Alexander told Philip “I
amas concemed about lew Your name as Tam for my recovery” (3.6.12).
‘This sentiment seems dubious, but it was 2 gave illness and the physician
cerainly called upon all of his knowledge and experience to promote his
fens recovery Pilip lft owing uted: he applied poulces to his bd
nd roused him when he was unt wit the sell of food at one ime, or wine at
Sshothe. As soon as he saw Alexander conscious, he would continually remind
‘im of his mother and sisters or again ofthe get Vietory that Was coming to
‘im (€-3.6.14-15) Tis docoe knew his patient

“Ain says that “The purge worked and eased the illness; and Alexander
showed Pp tht as his frend rusted ban and is site in general that he
‘was resolute fusing to suspect his fends and steadfast i the face of death”
(QD. This euocdinary display of confidence boosted everyone's morale at


Page 93, Instance 0, Class: Text
44 time when Alexander the Lyncestian languished in prison, and she king's
fetsoaal fiend Harpalus ad, without authsizaton, Ned from his
‘esponsibiies to Megan in Gresce"” I restored much-needed optimism and
husison tothe vente,

“Alexander was forced t conalesce until September. He then seat Parmenio|
eastward to occupy the pusses that ead fiom Cilicia to Syria. At the end of
‘September he fetstuong enough to resume campaigning ia southwestern Cc
‘At Aachiale he discovered the remains of an ancient ciy said to have been
Founded by Surdanaalus the Assyrian. Th founder's om was tthe enter of
the city, and the Assyrian king (pobably Ashubanial) was depicted on a
‘menial tele snapping the fingers om his sight hand with an accompanying
‘onion vo eat, dink. and coplats for ll else was woth no more tha the
sesture indiated.™ Alexander i said to have reported this incident 0 Atle
‘who remarked that such an epitaph was equally applicable toa Bll”

"Alexander continued ot Soli, where he sacified ta Atbena and Asclpis,
the go of healing, in grade for his recovery. This god, who was the son of
‘Apollo, had als Been connected with Dionysus. and Was aelave neweomer
‘among Gresk deities. Olympias, who was enomously flied at ber soa's
fecovery, sen a dedication to Hygea, the daughter of ASclepius and the
personification of health at Athens" In Soli Alexander held a fllesess anny
[processional (pompe), 2 toch ‘clay face, abd other abletic and terry
Competitions. Actas, singers, musicians and sometimes the oldies themselves
{engaged in contests (agone) that helped wo reinvigorate the ighting Force

"The hing thon led his infantry and the Royal Squadion of the cavalry 10
‘Magasus(aiving inthe autuma of 333), where he saciid to Heal Athena
‘Magarsus was a harbor town sftached to Malls and claimed Argve foundation,
Because of thei alleged common descent from Heracles, Alexander exempted the
‘owasmen from wiute. He also sacle 1 Amphilochus. an Argive hero who
‘was said to ave been at Tioy and had become associated with being =
“Amphilochs, who possessed prophetic power. was supposed to have founded
‘Malls with anoter seer, Mopsus. Amphilochus visited Greece abd upon his
‘tur had to atle Mopeus fr contol of the ity. The sets illad each oh
Single combat Apparently neither one had frescen the outcome.

Finding the city in cive tumoi, Alexander quickly restored ower and
sublised the an-Persian faction in power. He also leaned at Mallus tat the
Posi king, Daus II was encamped at Sochi on the Sian plain, and his
sttenton tured in that direction.

come yourelt

‘and stand up against me


Page 94, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘THE BATTLE OF ISSUS (333 BC)

Dari HL was tll and had a reputation as femarkabl Hightr. He was umored
to have personally ile « Cadosin rebel whom no one els had the courage 1
face" A member of collateral branch ofthe royal Achaemenid fail, he had
assumed the tone only in 336 with the suppoc of the Vizier Bagoas, 2 eunuch
‘who routinely poisoned his enemies. Soon alte his accession Duis tured the
{able onthe Vier and frced hi to ake a dose of his own moticne, Dart
abies as ale o general ate difficult to assess because of the unateactive
image espoused by European commentato seeking to jasify his ultimate
Aisplacerent by Alexander"

By November 333 Darius had asembled his imperial army and was marching
‘up from Susa in search of the Macedonian savader. He intended to defeat
‘Alexander decisively i pitch ate. Darius wanted 10 choose tbe buted
fn which he would defend his empie against the invading force ad he chose
‘well The broad plane a Soci were deal fr the deployment of his numerically
‘Superior fonce (Perhaps 50,000 to 75.000 men)" and especialy for his corps
‘fee, the Persian cavalry. Dai’ advisers, however, aterpted lo persuade
{heieader tat Alexander whos illnesshad kept himnacive or sometime, Was
avoiding him, and that the Great King should seek him out AmyBtan,
Macedonian rile at the Persian court who supported Darts an knew
‘Alexander well advised dhe Great King to inote his ber advises and stay put
“Amyatas sid: “Your majesty need have no Tears on that see. Alexander Wall
‘match agains you, in faethe s probably on bis way now" (P20)

Nonetheless, Darius abandoned his excellent postion at Soehi and marched
‘om into Cilicia to tack down his enny-*° By now Alvander hal established
‘himself in a defensive position.” When be heard that the Persian army’ bad
taken an unexpected route ad slipped i behind him he set some ships up the
coast coat the report. It was tue. Alexander hod blondeved and Dari was
{o the north at sus There the Persian king found the sick and wounded
Macedonian soliery who could not koxp up with Alexander's southward pace.
Darius interpreted their abandonment as evidence of Alexander's fant elfos
to avoid him. The stragglers were either massacred or had tot hands ebopped
othsey rendering them incapable a ever Fighting again

Iss was i the pion where the Anatolian subcontinent meets the Phoonician
coast The second of Alexander's great hates would be fought somewhere
‘within th confines ofa nacow pli, with the Sea om onesie, mounts onthe
fhe and the Pinus River runing between the two. Aihough the exact
Toei of the batlefield remains n doubt, these features would make it difficult
forthe considerably lager Persian Toce to outmancuver or encitle Alexanders


Page 95, Instance 0, Class: Text
On the eve of the bate Alexander, who could see the enemy illumined by
‘ousands of Hickering Persian eampfies atthe ether end of the naeoW coastal
plain, prayed to Thetis the Neteds, Nees, and Poseidon all f whom ae st
ines. This covered one Mark. He abo climbed, we ate to, "othe wap of
igh ridge and bythe light of several torches sacrifice othe wtlary’ gods te
din a} waditional manner" (C3.8.22)—he other unk was thevefore covered
4s Well Alesander was imploring the gods nto be the source a is misfortune
He had no fea if ll things were qua

“Ain has Alexander adesing his slr force and arousing confidence in
them though 4 skilful recitation of their advantages” they had aleady
emonsiated thei superiority during thet past vctces over this enemy the
‘ods had given peoot oftheir suppet by placing Das i a posion that was
“ulerable wo the Macedonian phalanx: Persian numbers were meaningless under
sich conditions: and Macedonian physique and moral were superior those of
‘Mebatarian Macedonian oughaes, he maintained, would wiamph overapeople
‘wallowing ia luxury twas a siuggle baween ree men and slaves. Greks will
‘eet Greeks, he said, But our Greeks igh voluntarily. and thet for paj—pooe
fay at that Our barbarians are superior totes, and besides all ts, "you have
‘Alexander commanding against Das" (273).

‘The king, Avian ste, recalled innumerable ats of past bravado. He either
splayed an idee memory, or demonstrated that he, ike Xenophon's Cus,
‘ha done the homework reed for such an impressive retrcal performance
‘Alexander also reminded his woops ofthe dangers he had faced abd suggested
‘hat even the 10,000 Greeks who fought thee Way’ out ofthe Pesian Empie 8
‘al-entry before wete inferior his Macedonians Now thatthe Grest King wa
sent on the hati, “nothing remained afer dis nal seugale but to eule
{he whole of Asia and stan end to thei long exertions” (276). Those in close
‘oximity to he king clasped his hand and shouted appeals tobe led on at once.

and among them was standing wake Acillus

fd urged on the figing men

‘with ter shields

and the horses

UL I6.166-7)

‘Leading the Companion Cavalry in an angled charge fom the fr right of his
line, Alexander punchad a bole in the Persian left and then wheeled towaed
Darius’ position at the Persian cener. Purmenio stood his ground aginst a
fowmidable Iranian cavalry on the Macedonian left while the Macedoaian
‘alan struggled to hold is own a the center. Alexander charged diet at
Dari ina spectacular sene tit is apparently represented on the Aesander
Mosaie rom Pompei."

From the other side

hecan at Peleus


Page 96, Instance 0, Class: Text
like a tion
pais i
‘UL 20.168)

‘A tle tld by Chares has Davus ining a thigh wound on Alexander before
‘he Grea King tured his chsiot in headlong Might"? Alexander's wound is
‘obable, and te iafition by Darius i suspect, but the Persian King’s departure
Hom the fields certain. Ate assisting his beleaguered woops elsewhere on the
Ihtlefield and ecerwise making certain of the viciy, Alexander Tusously
fprsued Darius. The chase had to be abandoned when darkness intervened
Darius mounted a fieshhowse and escaped at high speed. The royal chit
however. empty excep forthe king's bow and a dscuded mantle and shield
‘Was taken back by Alexander and his Companions tothe eapured Persian camp,
‘where the Macedonian Royal Pages had Been busy preparing the Great King's
‘apuredteat for Alexander. He could not help ut be inessed by the Pesan
‘opulence, but his public coments about i wete all unltring, as Plutarch
‘pons

When Alexander entered the bathroom be saw thatthe basing, the

pitchers, de bath themselves and the easkts containing unguents wee al

‘ade of gold and elaborately carved, ad noticed thatthe whole room was

‘marvellous grant with spices ad perfumes, and then passing fom hs

{nto a spacious and lot teat, he observed the magntience ofthe dining

couches the bles and dhe banguet which had been set cut fr bis He

{turned to his companions and remarked. °So this, seems, is What ti 0

baking

03)
‘The king scrubbed himself down and hal his wound tended to. It was time 19
cslebate and Alexander, as Cutis tellus, “had invitations sued bis most
Item fends—no mere gaze onthe thigh could keep hi fom attending 8
‘hanguet” (3.122).

"Those assembled at the symposium were inteupted by wailings from an
adjacent tent Alexander was old tat these sounds Wwere the keens of Daas
Female elatves, who assumed that thei king Was dead when he lard of the
empty chavo and the fate ofthe royal nsgnia The vitor sent Leonnats 19
sly thor git by informing them tat Darius was sil alive, and by eeasuring
‘hem there was ashing to fear fom Alexander who would honoe tvs rle and
‘etn ther piileges The queen moter, Sisyganb, was old that she would be
‘given list of fallen Persian noblemen, and was feet arrange a proper burial for
{hose who deserved special tention. Alexander gained posession ofthe fale:
ofthe Persian high command. This Would give him a decided advantage ia fare


Page 97, Instance 0, Class: Text
Bis aetons ConmEmed he words Me fad Sansmumed. ne roya’ women were
‘protected from molestation and treated with ostentatious respect. The king
[roved formally when Darius’ beautiful wife, peeps untouched by Alexabdet
5 Pantioia was untouched by Cyrus in the Cyropaedia died in eld,
‘These women were, of couse, pacelesspliel comedies. Their good wll
‘would also be instrumental inthe establishment of Alexanders rightful clan to
the Pesian throne. Neverheles, one shuld not dismiss the genuine pity and
‘compassion on Alexander's part inthis episode or underestimatthe impact of his
‘aghanity and chum. The royal women Were said have pase him asthe
‘one man to whom it was ight to lose anempte. Two actions by Sisypambis ae
telling inthis regard. She is vepoted wo have efuse tobe ibeated by Persian
‘woops during the bale of Gaugamela And her suicidal fas afer Alexander's
deat further tesifies othe ype of loyalty ha the chivalrous vito t Iss Was
‘cipal of inspiring."

"afer Isis AleNapder erected altars and sacrificed to Zeus, Hersles, and
‘Atbena Once agin be also stended tothe wounded, this tine Lining about in a
‘maner reminiscent of his father. Displaying his own gash, be steed Well!
the elaborate explanations of how each man had acsied his own badge of
courage

"The lemplation was there to pursue Darius toward the upper reaches of the
empire. He could perhaps set all sues, oe atleast make difficult forthe
Great King to vepvoup. With a Persian counterotfensve stil undee way in the
‘Aegean, however there were some ether important considerations. Alexander
Sensed that any failure wo implement the decision to conguer all avaiable
‘moorings along the southern lip of the Mediterranean might hve serious
fepereusions. His presence might be required at anytime in Asia Minor, the
‘Aégean. oc even Europe, Without the maoing ll progese could come 40
sup al

‘We shall ight again

unt the divinity

‘hoses betwee ws

and gives victory

the ther

737-8)
PHOENICIA (3332332 BC)


Page 98, Instance 0, Class: Text
lke Dematus the Besieger oe Pytthus, who could probsbly never have
conquered the Achaemenian empire” His victory’ at Isus had laid open the
{oule to Phoenicia. Alexander was greeted with a golden crown by the ruler of
the pnt city of Maras, and twas here that Alexander received the fist peace
‘offer from Darts. Envoys from the Gret King cared a personal ltr 10
‘Alexander and were instracted to appeal to him for the ease of the royal
apes. The ltr fepeted in Arian, blamed Philip forthe war and Alexander
for the invasion that damaged their counties’ “ancient fiendship" 2.142),
Accoutng to Arians account also stated that Darius accepted Iss the wll
‘of some god, and professed the Great King's willingness to become a fiend and
ally of Alexander ite Persian royal family were returned tobi. "=

Diodorus claims. however, that the Leer from Darius included signitiant
dts tht were omited in Arians version.” I offered, according to Diodorus
lage sansom forthe eaves and aroed to cession of all imperil tity
‘west ofthe Halys River. This waste ene area ha erates ha oped Pip
‘would conguer- Aso contained in this version isthe assertion tht Alexander
Fearing tat this overue might prove too attractive this advisers and therefore
‘blunt his move grandiose objectives, substituted 4 ietious Teter that was
Jntlerably overbearing. The spurious document ws, not surpeisingl, ejected
by his counselors.

"The tone of Daas’ leer, a it appeats in Artanis curiously anogant
considering the cicumstances, and may support Diodorus” claim of forgery
{Later offers mentioned by Aran ate sini tothe ginal proposal recorded By
Diodonus, and this too tends to suppor the late's clam. The concessions
eseibed by Diodons involved that potion of the empise alteady under
‘Alexander's contol. The king's eye, however, had alcady become fhxed on
‘enor that emined uncongbered. In the discussions between Alexander and
the Macedonian high command during this period we see the fist signs of
“disagreement about thesis nd objectives of he invasion

‘Whatever the tue ature of the Persian king's propos, they were Maly
ejected by Alexandr: He seat his own envoys t Darius with et ht Ws 1
te delivered to the Great King, but not discussed ith him. This lets, or
‘ersin of that seems to have been coded by Callistones abd preserved by
‘Avian, provides plausible justification ofthe invasion fom the Macedonian
point of vow. Ir ah shods considerable light on the way ia which Alexabder
‘wished ta Be sen:

Your ancestors invaded Macedonia and the est of Greece and did us great

‘ham, though Wwe had done thm no prior injury: T have beea appointed.

‘egemon of te Greek, and invaded Asia inthe desi Yo take vengeance

(on Persia for your agatesioas. For you assisted Points, Which wronged

‘y father, and Ochus sen force ito Thrace, which was under out rl

[MY father was musdered by conspiatoes, whom You Persians organized 3s

you yourselves boasted in your ltrs tall the wold, you assusinied

‘Arses withthe help of Bagoas, and seized the tone unjstly and in actual


Page 99, Instance 0, Class: Text
contravention of Persian law doing wrong to Persian: you sent unfriendly

Toto tothe Greeks about me, urging them to make war on me- You

esputched sums of money to the Lacedaemonins and cerain other

GGreks, which no oer ety accepted bu the Lacedsemonians. Your envoys

destroyed my fiends ad sought to destroy the peace Thad established ia

Greece. Although T marched against you, st Was you tht stated the

(quanel As Thave conquered in Bate fist your generals and sataps, and

‘ow yourself and your owm fore, and am in possesion ofthe county by

{he gift of heaven, [hold myself espousibe fal of your twoeps.. You

‘st then regard meas Lod of all Asn and come ome Ifyou feta by

Coming you may vceeive seme harm at my hands, send some of Your

frends wo receive pledges. Ask for your mother, wife and cilden an What

you will when you have come, and you wil ceive ther, You shall have

‘whatever you persuade me wo pve. And in future when you sen 0 me

‘make your addresses tothe king of Asia, and do not cowespond a8 a8

ual. ell me, a oof al your possessions, what you need others

Thali make plans to deal with you a a wrongdoer Bu if you claim the

-ingsip stand your ground and fight frie and dont flo, shall pursue

you wherever you ae

euss

‘Alexander ordered Parmenio to tanspot the spis fom Iss to Damascus and
to seize the baggage tain there. Parmenio followed ones and, 10 elive the
King’s financial pressures, confiscated. money and other precious objects
Including the mae casket that would house Alexander's annotated copy ofthe
Thad (261-2). Found among these impressive spoils were some 3.00 pounds
fof tejewlled dinking cups and seventeen bartenders in the service ofthe Great
King" Busine, the widow of Memon, was also discovered by Pareto, and
‘ho suggested that this Woman might also bea valuble asst to the king. Around
the same time Paamenio informed the king tht two Macedonians had been
charged with seducing the wives of Greek mercenaries in Alexander's sevice
‘Alexander stated that if convicted, these men “should be put to death as wild
‘beasts which te bor o prey upon mankind” (P2240,

In addon, Parmenio cae arose Greek envoys who had rived at Dri’
‘cour somtine before Insus. Alexander asked that they be sent drcly to bin. A
Spartan, whose native cy was openly hose ward Alexander, was De Kept
lunder house asst until Sparano longer posed teat, TWo Thebans, one of
‘whom as elled Dionysodons (the gift of Dionysus"), were released since
they represeated 4 state tat no longer existed, and because Alexander felt
‘compassion for hee plight."

"These gestures coincided with the king's other attempts to improve his image
in Hellas. For instance, the pasonerTphirtes of Athens was the son of &
omit Athenian general ofthe same ame whe a ove time had ben f some
Svc to Macedon He was kept as an booored guest rather than a pisoney, and


Page 100, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘when he became ill and died, his remains were transported back to Athens for
bara.

"A bumber of cites along the Phoenician coast sutendeed to Alexander
without opposition, Sidon, which had been treated poorly by the Persians,
‘tansered command of is iy ships fom Darius to Alewander. Also at Sidon
Hephaestion was given his fist important assignment: the responsibilty of
chosing a new ity Tor the city. Hephoestion managed 1o locate and install the
faly local man who could elim royal blood. This man, Abdaloaymus. was
‘Working ss gardener atthe tine." He wmedouttobe an excellent king whobad
{seme of gratitude for his selection. His sacophagus, which was contucted
fer the deaths of Hephaeston and Alevander and is now kuown as the
‘Aletander Sarcophagus, features Alexander with lions head foe a heliet and,
‘nseem, Hephaevion baling against Persians."

‘THE SIEGE OF TYRE (32 BC)

A fest it seemed asi Tyre had also submited to Aleandet. This was welcome
‘ws because this city promised to be even more dificult to besiege than
Haliarasss. The ol pot of Tyte had ben abandoned for some time. and the
‘Tyrians were now securely ensconced behind massive walls ow ap island that
was a halpnile from the shor. Alexander decided to test their sincerity by
announcing his neni to satfice to Heracles (he Tyrian Mele) inside the
Walls ofthe ity." He was told With apologies that Tyre would adit either
Persians nor Macedonians while hostilities between the two coined, and it
was suggested that he worship MeleartvHeracls atthe temple in the ol iy:
“The furious hing dismissed the representatives. He made one further ate 19
‘egotate an entance into the ciy. but hit Macedonian envoys were seized and
‘unceremoniously used from the batlemens. Alexander met wih his advisers
fd pushed fora seg ofthe iy

He argued that twas especially dangerous to leave Tye behind because ofthe
state of afin Greve. Alexander conjctred that the Peesins might “ansfor
the war ito Gesce, where the Lacodaemonians ae openly at wat with us, while
“Athens is kept i coat forthe present by far ator than goodwill towards ws
(2.172), Egypt he noted, was the key. Greece and Macedon would no longer
‘be vlncrable once Faypt and the Nile were this. Only ten he claimed, could
they confidenly resume thee pursuit of Darius The king's arguments were
persuasive, and his opinion prevailed

“Alexander's detemninaton to conduct the sige was reinforced by a dear be
‘nadia hich Heracles stutchedout his ight hand ead hi up ito the ety"

for Heras

the godlike


Page 101, Instance 0, Class: Text
spirit
dL 13245)

CCurius places the dream during the sioge, and says that Alexander, who “was
‘ot inexperienced in dealing with the soldie's temperament.” announced the
‘team w his troop in onde fo bolster thet flagging suppor for he pject (4.2.
1M). The deam as taken by Arstnder to mean that Tyee Would indeed be
cape, but ony though Herculean eff, Philip ha been sucessful in some
Siege Dut had fled at Pests and Byzantium, which were less imposing
challenges than Tyee. An oppostuniy to outdo his far may have provided
further incentive for Alexandr

During the siege Alexandr is sid to have had another dream in which,
Phu tls us, satyr mocked him fom a distance." The say clued his
‘rap at fist, bul was eventually captured. The sets, who were etymalogiss of
Sots when te occasion demanded, divided the word sary it a, "yours”
fd Tyros, "Ty," and told Alexander thatthe eam meant that Tyee would be
Ins. A repo of this dream and is interpretation was announced as an
endorsement of the siege to the oops. As usual, public disclosure of
encouraging omens Ike this was weful in refueling the amiy's enthusiast
‘whenever revolve seemed oe faltering.

Leto

‘homened words

‘ofane your tongues

ba. 60-70)

‘Alexander began the siege, acconding to Diodorus, “determined wo run every sk
find make every elf to save the Macedonian amy frm being held contr
by a single undistinguished ety" (17 40.4). This commitment tuned out be far
‘ore exacting than Alexander could ever have imagined, The sige lasted fom
January teough August of 332." During it, Diodorus sys, th hing himself
‘came so weary that he thought of giving up the whe busines and marching
con to Egypt" But, chaactristially, his determination and aversion to failure
‘dove him to conjure up a move imaginative approach. He bul slid easeway
fover the water, half-mile log and 200 feet wide, and then constcted siege
{ower that were moce than 150 fet high, the tallest ever ersted i antigt

Unfortunatly. the Tyrians responded to each and. every statagem wih
innovations ofthc own, which fasted the efforts af the besiege.

“At one poit the king's council almost unanimously, advised him abandon
the usauit Alexander scene to have wavered, but ‘he changed his mid as be
‘reflected tht it would be disgraceful to eae the Tytans with al the glory ofthe
operation” (D.17.45.).

“Alexander was ako not abou to admit that he had labored in ai, nor was be
willing to leave Tyte behind wa monunent to his flit. Reinforced by ships
from the Persian fot that had defected to him in what was, perhaps the decisive


Page 101, Instance 2, Class: Text
Mexanticr began the siege, according to Sodorus, “ectermined to mun every nis
“and make every effort to save the Macedonian amy fom being held in contempt
by a single undistinguished ety" (17 40.4). This commitment tuned out be far
‘ore exacting than Alexander could ever have imagined, The sige lasted fom
January teough August of 332." During it, Diodorus sys, th hing himself
‘came so weary that he thought of giving up the whe busines and marching
con to Egypt" But, chaactristially, his determination and aversion to failure
‘dove him to conjure up a move imaginative approach. He bul slid easeway
fover the water, half-mile log and 200 feet wide, and then constcted siege
{ower that were moce than 150 fet high, the tallest ever ersted i antigt
Unfortunatly. the Tyrians responded to each and. every statagem wih
innovations ofthc own, which fasted the efforts af the besiege.

"At one point the king's coun, almost unsnincusly, advised him o abandon
the usauit Alexander scene to have wavered, but ‘he changed his mid as be
sefleced that it would be disgraceful to leave the Tysans with al the glory ofthe
operation” (D.17.45.).

“Alexander was ako not abou to admit that he had labored in ai, nor was be
willing to leave Tyte behind wa monunent to his flit. Reinforced by ships
from the Persian fot that had defected to him in what was, perhaps the decisive


Page 102, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘troops into the city.

“The Macedonians, who ding the siege had fel the sting of white-ot sand on
their backs and seen comrades fosed frm the walls ofthe cy, slaughtered the
Inhabitants indaeiminaely. Eight thousand Tyransafe sad to have perished
luring the sick, and Cuts claims hat 2.000 men of multary age were crc
aller the city was taken." With his customary religous seupulsity Alexander
‘ramedinununity to thse Tyran notables who had been fortunate enough
Find sanctuary inthe temple of Meleah The rest ofthe 30,000 o¢s inhabitants
‘were sold ino slavery. Thus Tye, a city associated with Cadmus the matemal
-randfater of Dionysus, sfered blot

‘What blasphemy!

Swanger

have you

so respect

foe

beaven

(Ba. 263)
Alexander sacificed to Heracles in the temple of Meleath and held a
[pocesio, a naval seview, alee games, and a trchace in bonor of his
Ancestor. He also pid his espect at emp containing a colosal Greek state
‘of Apolo, which the Tyrans were sul o have chained during the howe."
‘They feared, it was eaimed, that Apollo might defect Alexander.

During the siege perhaps when it became apparent thatthe city would
eventually be ken the hing ceived a second overture from Dai. This ie
{he oviginl proposal was made moe atesctve by an oer of 10,000 talents for
‘the oval fal. the granting of all tater West ofthe Euphrates andthe afer
fof a mariage alliance It was under these ccumstanes tht Parmeio is said 1
‘have commented that ihe were Alexander, he would gladly accepe such a offer.
‘Alexanders famous retort suggestive of his fale's Wit, Was hat he 10 Would
accep te offer ihe were Pama.”

Tnscad, Alexander continued oa toward Egypt, only to encounter a sition at
Gaza that was hautingly similar to his peolonged nightmare a Tye” The city
stood on high mound srtoundd by dep sab, two-and-s-balf miles frm the
Sea, ad Bats the eunuch genes ia command of Gaz, refused to capitulate
‘Alexander's engineers, who contributed realy to the King's viioy at Tyee
‘concluded that Gaza was impossible to take because of the height af the mound.
‘Ain sys, “Alexander thought on the cootary, ha the mote impracticable
‘was the moe necessary Was the care forthe aehiverneat would sik eat
{error int his enemies just ecanse was beyond calculation, while not to take ft


Page 102, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘event ofthe sige, Alexander launched a varied assault onthe city. Calling onthe
‘Macedonians "to dre no less than be." he persoally led an attack on a breached
tion of tects wal, while a battering Yam brought it down elsewhere (D.17
446.1) After seven of the most exasperating months in bis fe, Alexander led his
‘woop int the ety

“The Macedonians, who ding the siege had fel the sting of white-ot sand on
their backs and seen comrades fosed frm the walls ofthe cy, slaughtered the
Inhabitants indaeiminaely. Eight thousand Tyransafe sad to have perished
luring the sack, and Curt clin that 2,000 men of mltay age were crucified
aller the city was taken." With his customary religous seupulsity Alexander
‘ramedinununity to thse Tyran notables who had been fortunate enough
Find sanctuary inthe temple of Meleah The rest ofthe 30,000 o¢s inhabitants
‘were sold ino slavery. Thus Tye, a city associated with Cadmus the matemal
-randfater of Dionysus, sfered blot


Page 103, Instance 1, Class: Text
would be blow to his prestige when reported tothe Greeks and Daas” 2.26
3)

‘When the siege engines were finally placed agains the wall, ani Alexander
‘was sctificng «bid reportedly lew and dropped stone onthe King’s head"
“Alexander asked Avstander what thi signified and was old hat the city Would
te taken, but he must take special precautions with regard 1 his own safety
‘Alexandr kept a a distance fom the fahing ual he saw his woops eating
‘and then instinctively joined in the mle. He was bit by a shot from a estapal
‘Which peneuated his shield and corel and inflicted a severe shoulder wound.
Cunius reports (4618-20) that Alexander was bandaged by Pip. the
‘Acarnaian sod “emained on his feet efore he standards, either concealing of
‘mastrng his pain until the Blood. began to flow mace copiously" (46.19). He
collapsed and was taken back wo the camp to recuperate Batis, believing that
“Alexander was dead, prematurely clebvated a victory.

“Alexander found slace in conjcturing that since his soothsayers premonition
bout the wound was accurate, he was aso pebably sight about the eapere of
the iy. At Tye, itmay be elle, Avstander had prophesied imminent victory
‘when moe tine was needed t aecomplish the tsk. Alexander then prolonged
‘he month inorder to Keep Arstaner's recon intact.

‘one who knew in his ind

{he wut of ponents

snd whom

the people

believe

une»

“The siege at Gaza lasted for wo mont was successfully resolved withthe elp
of sappers who dug under the walls and caused them to crumble. “Alexander
Fimsel led the advance oops and, a he approached somewhat reclesay.e
‘was stuck on the lg with rock. He supported himself with his spear and
‘ough the sab ad stl ot fomed on hiss wound, kept Figg in the fom
Tine, goaded also by his anger a having eeeived to wounds in besieging that
particular et” (C:4625-4). Arab mercenaries defended Gaza with conviction,
but they too wee finaly overcome. The entire garison was slaughtered, and all
‘Surviving women and children were sld ino slavery

CCurius fecouns the unusually cruel punishment inflicted on Batis, who
sequined defiantly silent when beought beoee his avers. Bats’ tes 1
sshnowledge Alexander's victory enraged the king The captive’ feet, we are
Td eras Mestad ant thongs nae inmtaad theousht tho egucags Wile body wae


Page 103, Instance 2, Class: Text
“The siege at Gaza lasted for wo mont was successfully resolved withthe elp
of sappers who dug under the walls and caused them to crumble. “Alexander
Fimsel led the advance oops and, a he approached somewhat reclesay.e
‘was stuck on the lg with rock. He supported himself with his spear and
‘ough the sab ad stl ot fomed on hiss wound, kept Figg in the fom
Tine, goaded also by his anger a having eeeived to wounds in besieging that
particular et” (C:4625-4). Arab mercenaries defended Gaza with conviction,
but they too wee finaly overcome. The entire garison was slaughtered, and all
‘Surviving women and children were sld ino slavery

CCurius fecouns the unusually cruel punishment inflicted on Batis, who
sequined defiantly silent when beought beoee his avers. Bats’ tes 1
sshnowledge Alexander's victory enraged the king The captive’ feet, we are
{old were perce and thongs were isertd through the openings. His body was
then utached to Alexander's chariot, and he was dragged ebiod i until Be was
dead Curtis as that "the king slated at having followed the example of his
ancestor Achilles punishing is enemy [este (629).


Page 103, Instance 4, Class: Text
‘Would be a blow to his prestige when reported to the Greeks and Darius” (2.26.
3)

‘When the siege engines were finally placed agains the wall, ani Alexander
‘was sctificng «bid reportedly lew and dropped stone onthe King’s head"
“Alexander asked Avstander what thi signified and was old hat the city Would
te taken, but he must take special precautions with regard 1 his own safety
‘Alexandr kept a a distance fom the fahing ual he saw his woops eating
‘and then instinctively joined in the mle. He was bit by a shot from a estapal
‘Which peneuated his shield and corel and inflicted a severe shoulder wound.
Cunius reports (4618-20) that Alexander was bandaged by Pip. the
‘Acarnaian sod “emained on his feet efore he standards, either concealing of
‘mastrng his pain until the Blood. began to flow mace copiously" (46.19). He
collapsed and was taken back wo the camp to recuperate Batis, believing that
“Alexander was dead, prematurely clebvated a victory.

“Alexander found slace in conjcturing that since his soothsayers premonition
bout the wound was accurate, he was aso pebably sight about the eapere of
the iy. At Tye, itmay be elle, Avstander had prophesied imminent victory
‘when moe tine was needed t aecomplish the tsk. Alexander then prolonged
‘he month inorder to Keep Arstaner's recon intact.


Page 104, Instance 0, Class: Text
SnD ot Bis Dot ot he Rack Be ate Be by en teeta.
and dew thongs of oxide tough tem and fastened ther to

{he chariot so 1 let the hea drag and mounted the chariot ab

‘whipped the hess to aru and they winged tet way untelucant

{22 396-400)

EGYPT 32 BO)

‘The ancient Gross were fascinated by Fay. where the cryptic ails made
‘hei own heralded monuments appear dinilve and recent. The isvian and
‘loner sntvopologs Herodotus visited what be elle "theft ofthe Nile,"
fn provides lengthy disqustion on Egyptian culture and religion in his
“Histories. Herodotus came tothe conclusion thatthe Egyptians were the most
feligious of all men This may, in pat, help to explain the entbusiasic
‘ception that Alexander, a conspicuously fligious man, recived thee. The
‘most important reason fr their enthusiasm, however, was the fact tht the
[Egyptian had stained under Achsemenid contol for most ofthe to ceatries
before Alexander's appearance, and they were ready tobe “brated” Ater
accepting Eaypt fon the Pesan satrap, who di at have enough woops fer
‘fective resistance, Alexander matched acoss the Sinai Deset by way of
Heliopolis, and entered Menpis as Egypt's tiumpbant deliver in November
m.

‘As pharaoh” Alexander pully saritlced to Apis dhe sacred bl, amidst
his other celebrations. His sacrifice to a divinity for whom there was 20
‘counterpart in he Hellenic world wis « maceful diplomatic stroke. It offered
vivid istration of his respec fo this dsnctly Egypan god, and served notice
‘hat he imtended to mect his piety ligation: as pluraoh Alevander ordered
‘enovtion ofthe temples desecrated by the Persians at Luxor and Karak, He
Showed himself worthy ofthe double crown and uae, andthe exossed scopes
fof ctook and fail tat symbolized Egyptian kingship. Alexander was now the
“ing a bth Upper and Lower Eaypt Hons, te protector of the land and divine
son of the sun Ra: ad the beloved son of Ammon. He was also, a east in
Egyptian cjes, the son of a god and a living god himselt Gossip would
eventually have it that Alexander was tell the son of Nectanebo Il the lst
‘atv prob, who, tbe try goes, had taken the form of shake at skp with
Olympia."

ALEXANDRIA (331 BC)
‘Alter holding the sual athletic and tray contests, Alexander sled down the
‘western am ofthe Nile searching fora suitable area on the coast whore he
‘might found a ety. He cruised ayound the Delta wal he discovered the deal
{envionment Iwas situated between Lake Marcos, which Was iland and the
{sland of Phos. Plutarch ells stat de inspiation fr his selection originated


Page 105, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘dream,
Out of the tossing se where teak onthe aces of Egypt
‘Rises an ise ro the waters: the ame tha en give tis Pharos
3803)
‘The Lng surveyed the tea and personally chose the Heaton, while commenting
‘hat Homer, who had many ther qualities, was ao a wise wchtet The formal
Foundation ofthe city probably ecused afer Alexander's visio Sivah."™
Tews an excellent choice. Close tothe Det, wth a supply of fresh wate,
cool ad fice from malaria, defensible, and witha deep-water anchorage, it
‘would become a model metropolis and the great Meditetanean trading centet
during the Hellenistic peiod. While Alexander was obviously thinking about ts
tultary and: commercial advantages when planing the city posterity Was
‘uppemnost in his mind when be called it Alesandsia twas the fist and most
‘vangushed ofthe many cities vo ear that nae. Their peolifestio ested
“Alexander's preoccupation wih being remembered
you ae pleased
‘when men stand outside your doors
‘And the ct lois
[yout name.
find so he god
too delighis
ory
(a, 319-21)
‘THE JOURNEY TO SIWAH (331 BC)
‘While inthe coastal eon, perhaps at Alevandsia, Ain slates hat
[A loging fpotios seized Alexander o pay a vst 9 Ammon in Libya
For one reason to consult the god, since the eacle of Ammon Was said 10
‘einai, and to have ben consulted by Perseus... and by Heracles
‘Alexander sought to rival Perseus and Heracles, ashe was descended fom


Page 105, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘THE JOURNEY TO SIWAH (331 BC)
‘While inthe coastal eon, perhaps at Alevandsia, Ain slates hat
[A loging fpotios seized Alexander o pay a vst 9 Ammon in Libya
For one reason to consult the god, since the eacle of Ammon Was said 10
‘einai, and to have ben consulted by Perseus... and by Heracles
‘Alexander sought to sivl Perseus and Heracles, a he was descended
‘hem both and in addon fe himself ace hs bit in prt to Anion,
{seas the lgends traced that of Heracles and Perseus o Zs. In any eae
he set out for Ammon with this ide, hoping to secure more exact
Knowledge of his ffi, o least o sy he had secu i
6312)
“This excursion equited 600 miles of travel through «hazardous desert regi
and took six weeks out of Alexander's life ata time when the enemy Was


Page 106, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘which his advisers, if consulted, might have raised questions for which there
‘were no persuasive answers They might have reminded him hat Cambyses
the son of Cyrus the Great, had launched an expedition into the Libyan Desert
‘at was swallowed up by a sandstorm!" But Alexander might hve replied
CCamibyses was not Cyrus, and the son drank excessively and went md when be
‘ought that he would never be able wo equal is falier's exploits

‘This was potios a yearning. a Dioasiac urge” to do. something
cetodinay. I eluded conventional analysis and could be utilized when the
‘ing wished to escape the restraints of parochial logic." When he was in the
potier of potas, aty objections ce reservations could be dismissed without
‘onsderaton

Letcounses

ad the meditations of men

‘be given tothe flames then

2340)

In Alexander's mind the undertaking made perfect sens. He was ligious man
‘on the bak ofthe most important bate in bis fe, and 50a consullaton with
‘restgious oracle was perfectly consistem with his poets. The wip might be
fenlous, bot fr him that woud bean incentive ater than a deterrent. Astle
‘ad spoizn with respoct about a pious pli who made the journey" The
Greek world, whose opinion was alvays of concer to Alexander, anked Siva
Slongide Dept and Dadona inthe forefront of prophetic authors" Given
{he infalibe reputation of its acu pronouncements apeoval at Siva could
Tend imprimatur to whatever Aleandet believed or wished to undertake

Callisthenes, the kins historian records that the offical season fr this epic
sojoun was Alexander's svalry with Heracles and Perseus" Aran, as has
‘oon noted, offers the other important inceaive for this demanding tip
‘Alexander's determination to clay the question of his divine agin. Olympia
‘emay be recalled, is sid to have fold Alexander that his father was a gov. The
Egyptians had aleady acepted him as both the son ofa god and a god in his
‘own righ, but among Macedonians and Grooks these fasbes bad o be weated
‘wih Sensiavty apd tact. The authority ofthe oracle ould be decisive with any
‘sch elaim made in the future,

‘When Alexander emerged from the desert at Siwal he was grected by the
cet priest a the oasis a either the son of Ammon ox, as Callstenes sai, the
on of Zeus, The Greeks identified Ammon with Zeus their supreme god, and
‘Alexander probably sare this view. When Alexander ltr swore by bath Zeus
fof the Grecks and Ammon of the Libyans, he was speaking eseualy of the
Same god in diferent modes. Separate manifestations imply distinctions
however and Alexander seems to have been inore defensive about being called
‘he son of Ammon than being referred to asthe son of Zeus.""7


Page 106, Instance 3, Class: Text
collecting a force designed to destroy him, It was a curious pilgrimage, about
‘which his advisers, if consulted, might have eased questions for which there
‘were no persuasive answers They might have reminded him hat Cambyses
the son of Cyrus the Great, had launched an expedition into the Libyan Deset
‘at was swallowed up by a sandstorm!" But Alexander might hve replied
(Cambyses was not Cytus, apd the son drank excessively and went mod when be
‘ought that he would never be able wo equal is falier's exploits

‘This was potios a yearning. a Dioasiac urge” to do. something
cetodinay. I eluded conventional analysis and could be utilized when the
‘ing wished to escape the restraints of parochial logic." When he was in the
potier of potas, aty objections ce reservations could be dismissed without
‘onsderaton


Page 107, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘There is evidence to suggest the god Ammon became increasingly important
to Aletander ater Sivah, and even an indication that he wished o be busied at
‘he diy’ oracle inthe Libyan Desert" After his death the me Who knew bint
‘well would incorporue the horn of Amon into the canonical iconography of
‘Alexander

Horns

have puted

from

your head

(ba. 021)
‘Or wimost importance 1 Alexander at the ime ofthe visit however was that his
divine deseeat be acknowledged by a religious figue of unimpeachable
futborty Wickens lam that the salutation Alexander seceived at Siva "must
‘have entered his sou lke «lsh ofighting and caused the deepest emtion”™*
comp exaggerated. If Alexander was tecogizedas pharac, he had every tight
to expect sch a gesting.

‘The new pharaoh Was offered the select privilege of communing withthe
‘oracle within the sacred precinct ofthe sanctuary, where he alone was ened 19
pose questions. Other than he fac later eooborate, that Alexander Was 11019
‘hich gods he should pay special ateton, we do not know what happened
Inside te shine, Alexander fas sao hve asked ihe would rule over the
‘rie word and ben fold that he would, bu this appears tobe the invention of &
Inter age

He is also reported to have asked if ny of his uther's murderers remained
unpanises

‘why does this man

‘who ie

aulless

Se is socrows

for no reson

id 20297-8)

‘This isa much mote specific question, wepated,” as A.R Buen tlls ws, “ery
credibly." The priest responded by chastsing th King for making an iui)
‘hat was Dasphemous, sine Alexander's alee was at moval. Alexander hen,
‘we ae told. rephrased the question by asking whether ot not all of Philip's
‘murderers had been brought to justice. He was tld dat Philp had been fully
svenged. Alevander must have ben delighted by such a pronouncement, abd it
‘Was unlikely that he Would keep io hinsel A revelation ofthis oat would be
‘Wel suited for what Faz Schachermeye has suggested were offical leaks,
uorized atthe highes level =


Page 108, Instance 0, Class: Text
Avian merely says that within the holy of holes Alexander “ecived the
answer his heart desied” (2.45). Ina leer to Olympia, which some historians
<ismis as spurious and others acept as genuine" Alexander i aid to have
{older hat he ad eceived sere information hat he would reveal o Ber alone
‘when he returned home. He would notin fat, ever return home, but his news
‘was inal kslibood, a conGimation tata divine partner supplied the seed for
“Alexander's conception. Or perhups, twas the recognition hat his mothe, Uke
‘the mother of Achilles, woul als enjoy divine status.

Tike Perseus and Heracles, Alexander would sete for vo one less than Zeus
‘or Ammon to be is divine fater. This notion would be litering o Oympias as
‘well even i she might originally have implicated Dionysis, as some scholars
have speculated. Dionysus was, alle all the cild of Zeus and a modal
‘mothe, while the Zeus Olympia knew a Dodona seems to have ben associated
‘wit Amon. The authenticity of the king's leer to his mother side,
‘Alexander's bei that he was the sm of Animon had erin become como
[nowledge among his offices by 328, when it Hgured prominently in his
drunkzn quel wath Clin. Also, any acknowledgment of such divine ition
by the King himself, even in the form of an authorized leak, might have
encouraged Olympias wo conjure up Ways of eiclating tis ews in her ow
sper of influence. This would supply a plausible explanation forthe cheerful
Complaint of Olympas that her son Was slanting her to Hers.”

Paradoically, Alexander's divine engendering didnot require the
sandoament of his mocal fae. Gresk heroes such as Heracle and the
Dioscuri had shown that dual paternity Was posible. Whenever it was nacessary
‘Alexander could continue offer 1 Philip a his father, ad, in fat, he often di
jas that Nopatbelss, Alexander's new poise implied a uboedinate paternal
{ole for his moral fer, and lent crdente to is mothers claims concerning bis
‘izin Tis poof of his divine fillation might also have served, like the woud
‘Seriod to Olympias before er son let fr Asia, o ruse Alexanders aleady
“uals expectation of hinsel even higher,

"There were more mundane considerations in this matter that seguted
lscreton. Inprent emphasis on his divine father might romp the question of
‘whether or not Alexander was uly Philip's som, and such allegations of
Ileptimaey could become the spur of a conspicacy. Wisely, Alexander dd not
insist on hs divine desceat to the deice that it caused a of his subjects 1
labs that he was Philip's sn. Infact. is continuing saciices to Heracles his
fancestor Uwough Philp) served to coafim the noun tht Alexander Was &
Tepumate Argead.” Even his wek into the desert atleast in the emulative
aspect so clealy emphasized in the oficial acount, undelied Alexander's
‘oal, moral incage

Proleny tells that Alexander travelled directly across the Libyan Desert on
fis retro Memphis, but Aristbuluss more convincing in bs rear, in which
te states hat Alexander retraced his spa. He was gete in Memphis by
sina amy’ of Geeck envoys fom Europe and Asia Minor being gits and
fedons. Astute ers fom Asia Minor quoted tei local oeales, which


Page 109, Instance 1, Class: Text
tesitiod vo Alexander's bith fom Zeus, and predicted more victories in the near

funwe for 4 man who at 24 was king of Macedon, Begemon of the Corinthian

‘League, overlord in Anatolia and in the Levant, pharaoh andthe on of ge
mean

tospoil you

ba. 910)

Buta discordant note had been sounded. It was reported in Egypt tht when be
‘ha drunk too much, Philos, the son of Parmenio the sine Philos who bad
played a fle sn the Pixodars aff). would boast is misuess Anigone that
Fo and his father were responsible for the greatest achievements on the
expadition. Aleander was a mere sping who telly wed the crowa them,
When this story reached Craters, 2 member of Aleander’s close cle of
frends, he screly escorted the wom to dhe King. Alexander heard the sory
sand ordered Antigone to continue to listen and report everything she hed
cel o hia

Reckless fool

you donot know

ihe

consequences

of your wouds

(oa. 335)
‘THE BATTLE OF GAUGAMELA (331 BC)
‘The Nile was vided at Mens, and Alexander began revacing his tes 19
‘Tyre inthe ealy sping of 331 During the crossing ofthe river, Hector. youns
son of Purmenio tnd favorite of Alexander's, board a sll eft with &
‘umber af his fiends and attempted to cach up wit te king's Magship. The
{youth's overloaded boat sank, and Hector, who stugeled to shore, ded fom
exhaustion. Curtis sas that is [see t losing him stuck Alexander deeply:
‘recovered the hody spd bred with «magificet funeral” (1.89),

‘On he eter hand Alexander had ile oF no s)mpathy fr thse who beled
sgaist him. An example ofthis canbe scen ins dealings with Saati, whet,
in the king's absence, insurgents had. ured the Macedonian garison
commander alive All those response forthe isunection were teensy
‘hunted down by Alexander. Archacologiss found the remains of some of these
Samaritans few decades apo ln the desert caves where the had sought refuse
Robin Lane Fox write, "Alexanders one and only way with rebels was ules,
andthe finds inthe Wad Dalayh caves ate a hush reminder of what it meaat 1
oss the path a son of Zeus"

"AI Tyte, Alexander sactificed to Heracles, and once again beld athletic
‘musical, and dramatic competitions. A toupe of theuial artists, members of


Page 109, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘THE BATTLE OF GAUGAMELA (331 BC)

‘The Nile was vided at Mens, and Alexander began revacing his tes 19
‘Tyre inthe ealy sping of 331 During the crossing ofthe river, Hector. youns
son of Purmenio tnd favorite of Alexander's, board a sll eft with &
‘umber af his fiends and attempted to cach up wit te king's Magship. The
{youth's overloaded boat sank, and Hector, who stugeled to shore, ded fom
exhaustion. Curtis sas that is [see t losing him stuck Alexander deeply:
‘ho vecovred the boy and bid i with a magtcet funeral” (1.89),

‘On he eter hand Alexander had ile oF no s)mpathy fr thse who beled
sgaist him. An example ofthis canbe scen ins dealings with Saati, whet,
inthe ing's absence, insurgents had. burned the Macedonian grtison
commander alive All those response forthe isunection were teensy
‘hunted down by Alexander. Archaologss found the remains of some ofthese
Samaritans few decades apo ln the desert caves where the had sought refuse
Robin Lane Fox writes, “Alexander's one and only way wit eels was ules,
andthe finds inthe Wad Dalayh caves ate a hush reminder of what it meaat 1
oss the path a son of Zeus"

"At Tyle, Alexander sacrificed to Heracles, and once agai Held als,
‘musical, at dramatic competitions. A toupe of theatrical artis, members of


Page 109, Instance 4, Class: Text
testified to Alexander's birth from Zeus, and predicted more victories in the near

funwe for 4 man who at 24 was king of Macedon, Begemon of the Corinthian

Legue, overlord in Anti, and inthe Levan, phaao and the son of go.
mean


Page 109, Instance 5, Class: Text
tesitiod vo Alexander's bith fom Zeus, and predicted more victories in the near
funwe for 4 man who at 24 was king of Macedon, Begemon of the Corinthian
‘League, overlord in Anatolia and in the Levant, pharaoh andthe on of ge

mean

tospoil you

ba. 910)

Buta discordant note had been sounded. It was reported in Egypt tht when be
‘ha drunk too much, Philos, the son of Parmenio the sine Philos who bad
played a fle sn the Pixodars aff). would boast is misuess Anigone that
Fo and his father were responsible for the greatest achievements on the
expadition. Aleander was a mere sping who telly wed the crowa them,
When this story reached Craters, 2 member of Aleander’s close cle of
frends, he screly escorted the wom to dhe King. Alexander heard the sory
sand ordered Antigone to continue to listen and report everything she hed
cel o hia

“Reckless fool


Page 110, Instance 0, Class: Text
the guild of Dionysus, arrived from Athens to participate inthe afi.”
‘Alexander pemirted two Cypriot kings, whose navies had bee istumenta in
the opening up of the easem Mediterranean, the honot of sponsoring the
‘competitions. Tessas, who bal been arrested by Philip and sacked in chains
‘cate of his mision on Alexander's behalf to Psodams of Cara six years
before, appeued in one production, The King refed vo enecie his influence
‘withthe adges ofthe contest, bu he was bitely disappointed when Thesals
failed to win. Alexandr claimed that he would have given a potion of is
Kingdom ose his erstwhile anusstde ump inthe contest

"The victor. Athenodoes, had beoken bis contret operfomn with bis guild a
the Dionysise fetal i Athens in order to share in the bountiful largesse
valle at Alexander’ court Back in Athens Athenodorus was fins fr his
‘unconscionable abence from an anal event held in honor of Dionysus the
fon deity of the man’s wn guild. Athenedoass appealed o Alexande foe
Teter that night explain that he had been summoned co Tyre by royal command
and therefore had litle choice inthe matter. The kg, however, who was
felucant 6 offend the Athenians any further, refused wo send the letie,But dd
‘Supply the money forthe fine from his own teasury. Ths gesture probably did
Ti to conciite the city, since Athens (and Dionysus) had been depeived of 3
etfrmance by the accompli ctor who had take ist place athe Dina

Tovar you

(a. 389)

‘Atbenian envoys were waiting for Alexander at Tye, and they requested, once
‘gain, thatthe King ele the Atenians captured a the Graicus. One ofthe
‘Albenians in ths delegation, Achilles, had probably been chosen primaily
‘ecause ofthe esponse his name might daw fom the King” Alexander
ethape amused by dhs, fred the Athenian captives. He was not amused
hough, howeves, to peri the crews of some twenty Athenian vesels in his
Service io eetum to Grace. As hostages they served to discourage any impulse
{hat the Athenians might have o Join ma movement to undermine Macedonian
hegemony in Hells.

‘Aer daling with this and other concerns, “Alexander dicted a gold
‘mixing bow! and thy cups to Hercules of Tyre andthe, presing om against
Darius, had oxdes given for much tothe Euphrates” (C816). The king
twavelod northeast dwough the Beqaa Valley. emerged on 10 the pais of
‘ower Syta, and artived a Thapscus in late Jly 31. Across the Eupyates
stood Mazacus the satrap of Babylonia, accompanied bya smal Persian force
‘Manaus, ho was there o observe the invades’ movements, reeated, and
‘Alexandr way able to ros into Mesopsania witout opposition.

Darius had asumed thatthe Macedonian King would tum South and march
toward Babylon. Because of the dificulies involved in such a march, which
‘Were magnified by the oppesive heat of late summer, Alexander headed in the


Page 110, Instance 1, Class: Text
again, that the king release the Athenians captured at the Granicus. Ove of the
“Atbenians in ths delegation, Achilles, had probably been chosen peimaily
‘ecause ofthe esponse his name might daw fom the King” Alexander
ethape amused by dhs, fred the Athenian captives. He was not amused
hough, howeves, to peri the crews of some twenty Athenian vesels in his
Service io eetum to Grace. As hostages they served to discourage any impulse
{hat the Athenians might have o Join ma movement to undermine Macedonian
hegemony in Hells.

‘Aer daling with this and other concerns, “Alexander dicted a gold
‘mixing bow! and thy cups to Hercules of Tyre andthe, presing om against
Darius, had oxdes given for much tothe Euphrates” (C816). The king
twavelod northeast dwough the Beqaa Valley. emerged on 10 the pais of
‘ower Syta, and artived a Thapscus in late Jly 31. Across the Eupyates
stood Mazacus the satrap of Babylonia, accompanied bya smal Persian force
‘Maracus, who was thete to abseve the invades’ movements, retested, and
‘Alexandr way able to ros into Mesopsania witout opposition.

Darius had asumed thatthe Macedonian King would tum South and march
toward Babylon. Because of the dificulies involved in such a march, which
‘were magnified by the oppressive beat of late summer, Alexander head inthe


Page 110, Instance 2, Class: Text
the guild of Dionysus, arrived from Athens to participate inthe afi.”
‘Alexander pemirted two Cypriot kings, whose navies had bee istumenta in
the opening up of the easem Mediterranean, the honot of sponsoring the
‘competitions. Tessas, who bal been arrested by Philip and sacked in chains
‘cate of his mision on Alexander's behalf to Psodams of Cara six years
before, appeued in one production, The King refed vo enecie his influence
‘withthe judges ofthe contest, bt be was bitelydisappoined when Thesals
failed to win. Alexandr claimed that he would have given a potion of is
Kingdom ose his erstwhile anusstde ump inthe contest

"The victor. Athenodoes, had beoken bis contret operfomn with bis guild a
the Dionysise fetal i Athens in order to share in the bountiful largesse
valle at Alexander’ court Back in Athens Athenodorus was fins fr his
‘unconscionable abence from an anal event held in honor of Dionysus the
fon deity of the man’s wn guild. Athenedoass appealed o Alexande foe
Teter that night explain that he had been summoned co Tyre by royal command
and therefore had litle choice inthe matter. The kg, however, who was
felucant 6 offend the Athenians any further, refused wo send the letie,But dd
‘Supply the money forthe fine from his own teasury. Ths gesture probably did
Ti to conciite the city, since Athens (and Dionysus) had been depeived of 3
etfrmance by the accompli ctor who had take ist place athe Dina


Page 111, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘opposite direction and could cross the Tigris unopposed, just north of Mosul. He
‘hen proceeded south slong the Tigi, and afer afew days his scouts made
‘ontt with he enety. A Paconian commander brought the King the head of
{enemy leader be had personally killed inthis encounter and then announced that
‘nis county (up the Axus River noah of Macedonia the heart of such sit
‘Would have been rewarded with «golden cup. "Yes, but with an empty one. 1
‘ill kink your heath with cup ful of neat wine, and ive it to] you 3s well”
(392), replied Alexadee

‘A neural eclipse ofthe moon occured on the nigh of September 2025
‘The always pious Alevander responded to this awesome phenomenon by
‘Setfcing tothe Mon, the Sun. ad the Earth Anstandr, whose optiisth
‘Was iepessibe, welcomed hiss sig thatthe king would enjoy resounding
‘ctr tere the end ofthe meath

"Emotions fan high in aniipation ofan epic clash. Putt says that camp
followers divided themselves inta factions and fought a ck bale under
leaders calling themselves Alexander and Darius, When this expression ofthe
‘mounting tension appeared io get out of hand. Aetande nterceed and erered
te leaders to engage in single combat to ste the issue. Alexander armed his
‘amnesake, and Philta invested “Darius” with weapons, The enlve camp
‘watched in anxiety and then celle as “Alexander” prevaled”

‘Vietory on the bate, however, promised to be more complex. During the
Jmervening to yeas Darius had assembled some 25,000 horsemen fom his
‘ster straps an untold number of infu (perhaps $0,000), 200 seythed
hari and even 15 elephants” He was now encamped oa a wide pain near
Gauganela (Tel Gomel), about 70 miles fom Abela. Datos waited
determined to avoid the mistake hat le tothe debacle at sus. Alexandr was
‘thle field only 7,000 horsemen and 40,000 foctmen, His men were superior in
<iscipline and experience inthe Feld, but he was shor in numbers—and well
‘wae oft

“Alexander delayed dhe aac uni he ad personally examined the tena for
ches and sakes planted by te enemy to obstruct his cavalry He also allowed
Fimself some time to mull ove the positioning of his immense and spring
em. This decision to walt, which bad been urged by Parmeno, suprised
‘Alexander's officers, and forced Darius wo keep his woops pepated for an
‘mmineor stack. Iwas uncharacteristic in frouation and bilint nefect and
Tet the Persians in a confused sae of exhaustion when te tack finally came
fn the moming of Ober 12

Plutarch telly uy that "Alexander allowed his Macedonians to sleep, but
himself spent the night infront of his tent inthe company of it divinet
‘Aisande, with whom he perfoawed cern mysterious and sacred ceremonies
fd offered sactiic to the gu Fear [Phobos (3.9). Iwas as fara We know
the fist and last time Alexander sciied o Fest. This hideous Greek demon
‘was belived to have the power t unhiage morals and supplication: in his
hhonor were designed to terify an enemy. The numerical superiority of the
Persian, whose cavalry glaringly outnumbered Alexander's, may have inspired


Page 112, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘the next day Alexander would even put an a breastplate, something Curtlus says
‘was very re for him, The Roman Mstoian cums that te king resorted to this
[ovection “atthe request of his fiends rater than though feof the danger
{hat had to be faced” (8.13.25).

‘On the eve of the tle Parmenio and some ofthe older Companions ofthe
‘ing went to observe the enemy from an overlooking vidge left unmanned by
Darius. They sa an “eae plain apleam with the wats ofthe barbarian,
‘while fom their camp there arose the confused and indstnguisbable mur of
-mysadsof voces, lik the distant roar of avast ocean” (P.3L.10)

A thous fies

‘were burning tere ia the plain

fd beside ech one

saity men

inthe fare

ofthe blazing Slight

UL sse2"3)
Pamenio returned to the royal tent where Alexander was conversing with his
fonds. Plutarch says that the kings seasoned general Wied 1 persuade him 10
attack by nigh because ofthe imposing disparity in umber, Alexander i sid
{o have answered with unusual brusgueness, “Twill wt seal my wet)” (SL
Ib,

“Ain, who offers essentially the same acount ofthese event, explains the
curtness‘of the king's remark through ties vio beard Alexander state
‘ategorically tht he was detenmined "to win his victory openly and without
Stetagem” (3.102) Asan also points out hata night attack might have left the
futcome to chance, and that a cover victory would have given Alexander's
itis the opportuni to discount or devalue his success:

Plutarch continues,

When his fens had gone, Alexander ly down in his ent and esd to

Ihave passed the rest ofthe night int deeper sleep than Use At any rte

‘when his officers eame o him inthe early naming they were astnisbed

to find him ae yt awake, and on tet wn esponsibility gave out orders

forthe solders to take breakfast before anything else was dove. Thea, as
tie was pressing, Parmenio entered Alexander tet. stood by bis couch,
and called him oF dee times by name: when be had oused is. be

{shed ow he could possibly slep si he were aleadyVitrius nea

‘of being about to ight the greatest hate of is ie. Alexander smiled and

Said, "Why not? Do you not see that we have already Won the Bate, now

that we ate delivered from roving around these endless devastated plas,

fn chasing this Dai, who wil never stad nd fight?”
ea


Page 113, Instance 0, Class: Text
Plutarch implies that Alexander's peculiar deportment on the eve and morning of
the bale showed his stadfistness and confidence” He offers evidence
elsewhere, however hat supports simpler explanation for Alexander behavior
“[Alhough at other mes his seit) was delightful and his manner full of
cham beyond that of any piace af his age, yet when be was raking e Would
Sometimes become offensively arrogant and descend tothe level of common
lier and on these occasions he would allow himself not only to give way
‘boasting but als toe led on by his flaterers., When the drinking was overt
‘was his custom to take bah and sleep, often atl midday, and sometines for
the whole of the following day” 237-8). eis eear fom this reference that
the odinrily courteous Alexander could he quite rude when under the sflcnce
of wine, and that he customarily overslpt ae inking great del the night
‘efor. Thi, it would scm, may have been ane of dhose occasions, although
Plutarch himself appareny ever came wo that conclusion

“Alexander adresed his officers someone during the night efor the bal
"They were reminded that any individual neplee of dty put the entieenteyprise
tisk Discipline was ofthe utmost impertane, and peeect silence Was to be
‘maintained by the woops unl they issued the collective shout tat Would se to
‘Terescendo and ske Teri the heat ofthe ene.

let shame be in your hears

and discipline

nthe sight

fotber men

UL I3661-2)

‘On the moenng of the bate, Alexander directed bis attention to the Thsslians
and aliod cavalry. Ina exhortation before these troops, Alexander, Callens
tells us, prayed to the gos that since he was uly the on of Zeus they would
‘ect and forty the Greeks" Arstander, who wore wie robe and a golden
{Grown accompanied Alexander ding the bi iatriue before bate. Endowed
‘withthe typeof vision appropriate forthe occasion, Avistander sighted an eagle,
the messenger of Zeus soaring above the head of Aletabder and twat the
enemy" This ome, when announced othe woops, is sid to have filled them
‘with great couse

Plutarch offers a splendid description of Alexander's appearance before the
tle,

He was already wearing the rest of his amour when Be lft his tn, a uni

‘made in Sicily which was belted around his waist and over this thickly

dqulted linen corset. which had been among the soils eaprred at Iss.

His helmet the woe af Theophilus, was made of stel which leaned ike

polished silver and to his was fied steel gorgst loa roe] se with

‘recous sone. His word, which was a gift from te king of Cun, ws

marvel of ighiness and tempering. and he had wained himself to use is


Page 113, Instance 2, Class: Text
Plutarch implies that Alexander's peculiar department on the eve and morning of |
the bale showed his stadfistness and confidence” He offers evidence
elsewhere, however hat supports simpler explanation for Alexander behavior
“[Alhough at other mes his seit) was delightful and his manner full of
cham beyond that of any piace af his age, yet when be was raking e Would
Sometimes become offensively arrogant and descend tothe level of common
lier and on these occasions he would allow himself not only to give way
‘boasting but als toe led on by his flaterers., When the drinking was overt
‘was his custom to take bah and sleep, often atl midday, and sometines for
the whole of the following day” 237-8). eis eear fom this reference that
the odinrily courteous Alexander could he quite rude when under the sflcnce
of wine, and that he customarily overslpt ae inking great del the night
‘efor. Thi, it would scm, may have been ane of dhose occasions, although
Plutarch himself appareny ever came wo that conclusion

“Alexander adresed his officers someone during the night efor the bal
"They were reminded that any individual neplee of dty put the entieenteyprise
tisk Discipline was ofthe utmost impertane, and peeect silence Was to be
‘maintained by the woops unl they issued the collective shout tat Would se to
‘Terescendo and ske Teri the heat ofthe ene.


Page 113, Instance 4, Class: Text
On the morning of the banle, Mexander directed lus attention (0 ie easaans
ud lcd cavly, In an exhortation before these troop, Alexander, Callisthenes
ells, payed othe gods that since he was tly he son of Zeus they would
protect ad forty the Greeks” Aitander, who wore a white obe and golden
cova, accompanied Alexander during the bef iatude before bate, Ese
with the type of vision appropri forthe occasion, Arsunder sighted an eagle
the messenger of Zeus, soaring above the head of Aleapde and towatd the
enemy This omen, when announced to the Woops is said have filled therm
with great courage
Plutarch offers a splendid description of Alexander's appearance before the
bt.
He was already wearing the rest of his amour when Be lft his tn, a uni
‘made in Sicily which was belted around his waist and over this thickly
dqulted linen corset. which had been among the soils eaprred at Iss.
His helmet the woe af Theophilus, was made of stel which leaned ike
polished silver and to his was fied steel gorgst loa roe] se with
‘recous sone. His word, which was a gift from te king of Cun, ws
marvel of ighiness and tempering. and he had wained himself to use is


Page 114, Instance 0, Class: Text
his principal weapon in hand-to-hand fighting. He alo wore a cloak

‘hich Was more orate than the test of his amour It had been made by

Helicon, an ais fear ties, and pesented to Alexander aya mark af

‘honour by the city of Rhodes, and this foo he was ithe abi of wearing in

ate,

say

Only the best outine ofthe hate is recoverable from the surviving accounts,
‘Alexander commanded his Companion Cavalry on the ight and Parmenio led
‘he Thessallans onthe left. Danus once again commanded his oops fom the
comer of the Persian line where he stood, visible 1 all, ia his chariot
‘Alexander’ intention, as at aus, wus to ceste aft inthe center of the enemy's
Tie, and then suddenly to chuge to the let ward the Great Kina chat. This
tactic was gain sucenful and Darts fled fom Gaugamela as he had fled fom
Teas

Teis reported that Pamenio experienced such difficulties at his station that
‘Alexander had 10 abund his pursuit ofthe Persian king in de o come to his
{sneral’s assistance” This claim, based on allathenes ts usally interpreted
asthe use of Parenio asa scapegoat in exert explain Alexander's inability to
‘apture the Persian king and sete the issue once and fr all. Nonthoes, this
‘ay very well have been wht occured especially if Alexander received such at
“igen request for asistance before he had bog his pursuit of Dai. Te seams
‘unlikely that he would have abandoned the eld the outcome af the bate bad
‘sll been i question =

‘Alexander either esumed or beg his pursuit of Darius later in she da. bu
tealze that the chase was fue By the ie he reached Arbela: Darts hal led
to Echatana under the assumption, which proved core, that Alexander would
{urn south toward Babylon, Sus, and Pesepoli, the great pies ofthe wat Not
Tong afer Gaugamela Alexander was proclaimed king of Asia, which meant
Grea King" He had claimed Asa teugh the divine providence ofthe gods i
334, and he now sacrificed to them in gratitude for his victory at Gaugamel,
‘Special offerings were made to Athen, who had served Alexabder wells sbe
‘ha is ancestor,

“Soon after Gauganela Alexandr made extravagant gifts of land, ites, and
‘weak to his senior offices. Merit rater than seniority ad become te criterion
Tor promotion, and it asthe king Who detained whose second deserved
recognition and reward. Dcdorus tll us that "by giving all the commanders
{telerprestige be bound then to himself by sttong tes of afection [binging
{he whole force up tan outstanding devotion its commander and obedience 19
his commands, and tos high degre of effectiveness, looking foward the bales


Page 115, Instance 0, Class: Text
BABYLON AND SUSA (331 BC)

Alexander approached Babylon in bate formation. Mazaeus, who bad
pevfomed sth distinction i the enemy's service at Gaugamela, came ot 1
ret the king as legitimate steceror to Darius TH." Kr was tumphant
nuance into Babslon, nt unlike the fecepon afforded o one of Alexander's
‘models, Cyrus th Great, 200 years eae After the reign of Cyeus, however
‘he Babyoaians had revolted agaist Pesian rule and flt he sing of Persian
‘etibution, Kerns, the despole ofthe Athenian Acropolis, bad plundered the E=
Sgila, Marda’s tmple atop the eighstory zigurat ad had melted down the
colosal gold statue the Babylonian god for bullion. Asin Egypt Alexander was
‘welcomed as a liberator. He fanned at-Persian senianent in Babylon by
‘omising to esoce the ziggurt andthe temple. His troops were given the
‘portunity to recuperate from the ordeal t Gaugamela and to Taxurte in the
Meshpot of Babson for move thas 3 moat

Tn gratitude for an open cty andthe recognition of bis Pesian kingship,
Alexander retained Mazaeus, a Petsan as satap of Babylon. The king, in efor
announced policy that it was hoped, would tact futher suppor fom the
Psian nobility Persians who cooperated with Alexander would Be confined in
their potions and privileges. Ths move aso helped ta telive a problem that
had resulted dicely from Alexander's unprecedented conquests he need 19
find competent and wustworhy administators who could be spared fom
expeditionary service i der to govern the coagucted eitories. Mazscus Was 8
fine choice. He had shown personal courage sn loyalty on the balefield and
coms to have marie a Babylonian woman. Also, despite the regional antipathy
foward Persians. Mazacus seems to have enjoyed consideabie popula i
Babylon

"This course of action foreshadowed Alexander's nurturing of harmonious
{elations between his cadre of executive officers andthe Persian ruling class
‘This Would find its most dramatic expression inthe Susa masiages of 324 (se
CChaper 4), The policy was designed to facilitate Alexander's goveming of an
Jmmense cmpze" I as forged out of necessity, rather than any tempt
assimilate the disparate elements into one ule

“Although Mazacus was left in charge of his province, Alexander appointed 3
‘Macedonian o be gaison commander in Babylon, Ancter of his own ofiets
‘was coven tobe the chief tax collet. These men served 4 royal agents, who
‘monitored the satp's performance in the king's absence. This administave
‘lending of Macedonians and Lnans established the pate of govermance for
the Iranian lands west of India Thee is no record of early Macedonian
‘responses to this policy, but ltr evens reveal simmering reschiments over such
considerate handing a a Vangished pope

“Afler Gagamsla Alexander wrote to the Greeks that ll yrannies were now
abolished, and that people could at lst lve under their own Laws These
‘oughis were perfectly consonant with the policy tha justified the expedition ab
Inti. I would ot be long, however, before Alexander was faced with &
Staton wherein his succes outistanced his propaganda, The Babylonians


Page 116, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘were the last non-Pesians willing to be Uberated. After Babylon Alexander
‘Would have to claim that he was emaneipating the Persians from themselves.

‘sting his persona af Hbsrtor would become virwally inpossible once
Alexander had occupied Sus. the adminiswatve center of the empise, and
Pesepoli, its ceremonial ub. The king could, however begin t emphasize hs
sole as avengee, which he did forthe next several months. IT, however he ever
‘Wishod toe accepted by the Persians as dei Great King, sch a policy would
‘be contradict and eounterpeoductive,

‘AU usa, when Alexander sat on the Persian thane beneath the ceebated
golden canopy. he found that his lgs were dangling in mid-aiabove the royal
Footstool" This was because Darius I was excepionaly tl, while the youn
congueor was less than imposing in eight. The scene must have bec sa)
fhe least, awkward, An ale Macedonian page quickly placed 4 nearby able
underfoot, which evoked lamentations from Pesan euntch, When questioned
by Aletander, the eunuch explained that his former master used t eat fom the
‘ery table that was now being ated With utr coatemp. The king decided 10
have it removed. but Philots urged him to leave it where it Was, saying
“No, your majesty, don’t do tha. Take this a6 an omen, too—the table fom
‘which your fe te bis banquets has been made a stool for your fest” (C5213)
‘Alexander lft where was"

“Another question af protocol involved Sisygambis, Das’ mother. Alexander
‘had feceived a present of clots and purple cloth from Macedonia, and he
‘resented this mitral tothe qucen mother, slong with seunsttesses and an offer
{0 tach er granddaughters the echniges of the craft Persian society suck
‘Work was peeved to be demeaning to noblewomen, andthe offense let the
queen moshcr a tas. Alexander thinking hat he cation eguzed his persoaal
‘Menton, sought her ou

‘Moser, these clothes Iam wearing ae not merely a gift from my sisters

Isic), but also their handiwork. I was led into eror by our own custom

Please do not ake offence at my ignorance. Ihave, hope, scrupulously

‘observed what Thave discovered of your conventions. I Enow that among,

{you itis not ight for a3on to it down nhs mother's presence without het

emission so whenever Ihave come to you T have remained on my Tet

‘ntl you beckoned me to sit Often you have wanted 1 show me respect

by pestating youself before me but Thave Tovbidden st And the ide doe

10 my dear masher Olympia give to you

(32202)
‘Alexander sted Sisygambis and her randcilden at Sus, and tutes were left
toreach them the Greek language"

Atound this ie substantial enforcement, incang 000 Macedonian fot
soldiers, S00 hoesemsen and 50 Royal Pages, aved from Europe Alexander,
‘concern about «revolt ia Greece tht war being spearheaded by the Spartans,
‘had seat 3.00 talents ack home to help deal with the problem. The kit, Who


Page 117, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘had started his reign in dire financial straits, had recently collected 50,000 silver
talents at Sus fom the imperil ueasury. Fortunately, money Was no lngee
concer to him. Ia Greece Anipater had marshaled force of 4.000 mew and
‘ha defeated the insurgents ouside the walls of Megalopolis, When Alexander
Teamed of Aatipatr’s impressive victory, however, hei sad to have rematked
‘har it was merely “a be of mie"


Page 117, Instance 3, Class: Text
ad started his reign in dite financial stats, had recently collected 50,000
lens at Susa from the imperial essury. Forunately, money was wo Ja
once wo him. Ia Greece Antpaer ha mashed free of 40,000 me
ad defeated the insurgents outside the walls of Megalopolis. When Alex
nod of Aatipaer’s anpresive Victory, however, he is sad to have em
a i as merely “abate of mice”

°

Dionysus

‘sein rests wi you

‘And

you ae near

Punish this man

But fst,

alist hs wits

bewlder bim

with

adoess

“Ba. 849-51)


Page 118, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘THE SIGNS OF CHANGE

“Here begins Alexander's tragedy; the uagedy ofan increasing onetiness, of
‘rowing ipstience with hose who could not understand” says Tam, writing of
events which occured davng the summer of 330 BC There sno need, be adds
he whee, 10 "don thatthe Aleander of 324 was wot the Alexander of 334°"

“Alexander's transformation fascinated and perplexed the ancients The man
whose vistue Plutarch had Lauded so fervently came o be “Tate by his men for
‘is rolentess severity in punishing any dereliction of duty" (F373), and was
“inteasingly suspicious of his fends” 741) 1a the end, his admise laments,
‘Alexander became “so much obsersed by bis feas of the supernatural and 50
‘overwrought and aprehensve in his own min, that he interpreted every ange
fr unusual occurence, no mater how tival as a prodigy a portent, with the
‘esulthat the place [at Babylon] was ld with soaisayers, sactfcers piers
fd pognostatas” (75.0,

Plutarch describes one aspect ofthe metamorphosis:

\We ae also told that when he was eae] tying a prisoner on a capital

charge, be would place a hand over one of his ers while the pronto was

Speaking. soa wo keep i fee and impart for stening othe defendant.

Bur latetso many actuation were la efor him that he grew hash nd

‘was inlined 1 lieve even the fake charges, because so much that be

‘Was tld was tue. Above al, if anybody spoke il of hin, his judgement

‘Was ape to desert him and his mood would become cruel and mercies

‘Soe e valved his good name move than his leo his crown.

24

Plutarch calls stenton tothe roles of fear and ange in this dramatic change, and
emphasizes tht Alexander was afta that he would lose the favor ofthe gods,
fF that his Macedonians might glow weary of the expedition. For Plutarch,
Hamton tells us, “anger isthe ehie defect ia Alexanders chaactes"” The
ancient biographer, who Is clealy uncomfortable wit tis wat in his sbjoc


Page 118, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘The metamorphosis


Page 119, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘offers the expansion that it was Alexander's “warmih of temperament which
‘made him fond of drinking. and also pre ocutbusts of cole tage™ (47).

‘Caius, although arguing that Alexanders penchant for adopting intl
customs was the oot of his problem, pots tothe pats plaje by fea and anger
‘in Alerander's transformation He also refers wo an increase te frequency and
extent of the king's inking athe time

‘This [rintizaton} explains the increase inthe plots agains his fe, he

‘mutnyof his men and the more-pabli displays of resentment and mutual

‘crimination among them: i explains ‘why Alexander subsequently

sella between ager and suspicion which arose fom groundless fet

nd it explains eter similar problems.he was spending his days as Well

ashis nights on these prouactod banquet

(6243)

‘A moalizing Curis (3.12.18-19) laments that ater in life Alexande failed 19
‘hain his earlier moderation, "For then he would suey have overcome the
efcets he failed to overcome, hs pide and his temper” (3.12.19). Aer peising
‘Alexander's vistues elsewhere, Corus had come to the conclusion ha they
‘wet al “mare by his inexcusable fondness fo dink" (3.71).

‘Even Arn fell obliged to acknowledge that in bis lier years Alexander
‘became “quicker-empered and, courted as he now Was inthe Dabarian manner
‘had cease to beso Kindy atin old ines to the Macedonians” 7.83). When
fefetng othe evens of 328, he also associates the King’s wansformaton with
‘wine by stating tat “in Tact, Alexander had aleady taken to new and more
‘tari ways An drinking” (482. Justin says Bnly that Alexander, like his
Father, was simply “too fond of wine” (98.18)

[Every major acount ofthis feted tat has survived alludes to Alexander's
pecula tlaionship withthe earthly agent of Dionysus. The ancients bad
efits opinions about the psychology of drinking. Thognis had claimed that
“bly fireone ests gold and ster, andy wine one leurs the characte of man.”
Callas Argos states unequivocally tht “wine isthe test of characte."*
Pilchoras andcpating the deta dy vino veritas, says that drinkers reveal
their wwe natures.” Pitacus, the sage of Mytlene, is said to have “advised
Peviander of Coit no to get dunk and wot revel.so] hat You may nt be
ecogized asthe srt of man you happen to be..fo..wne [is] the mir of
the mind.”

‘Plutarch paises occasional drunkonnes ia the wise man, frit enable him 0
selax without having to Tear any damaging disclosure or los of vite.” But
Strong drink, he believes. imtensifis natural tendencies, and tose who have
‘iicuy conlling their emotions while sober are likly to be at is mercy
‘while drunk He coatends that wine tings out de best in some and the worst i
‘ters I shakes out he folds a were, where duplicity and rancou ak i
the mind, and reveals every tait of character and every sete feling in
‘wanspareat language” (Mou 715D,


Page 120, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Tolerance for wine, Plutarch observes, varies from one person to the next, He
auton the ost a symposium to be avare ofthe "change drinking produces
‘each (guest) into what emotional sate he ap to fall” (Mor 6206) Wine
‘ot only summons one's characte othe surface. he declares, but eeshapes i
“Just as wine is a fst coauolled by the character ofthe dear sit warts his
‘whole body and becomes mingled therewith, (fms the drinker’ character
and changes hin” (Mo 799b-).

During Alerande’s reign symposia were social evens that included dining.
cuteinment, and inking. They weve obviously impvactical when the ay
‘was on the march, so symposia most often ook place between campaigns, when
the King's men were securely Sele behind the walls of ei. They were
usually held in a designated part of the eoyal quarts, and the number of
Ptcpants varied from a doven or more close frends to the extravagant
‘Wedding celebaton a Susa in 324, wen he great "Tet ofa Hundred Couches"
‘Was used and over 10.000 guests ceived gilt. Ordinarily there would be sixty
{o seventy symposia inclding Royal Companions and special guests,

‘These events served 1 multe of purposes for the king, Dati sport 10
rote Eugene N- Boca's reminder tat the central feature of the symposium,
specially the Macedonian variety. was dining? The soures either diclly
{ele or allude o atleast twenty-six (by my coun of Alexander's symposia over
fn eleven-ear poiod (384-323). Significantly, tbe majonty of these ate
feported to have occured during the lst thee Yeats of his life 325-323)"
‘Macedonian sympeia consmoly continued unt fatigue, boredom, druakso{a}
es, violence a ep intervened." and wee, t seems a statkcomtast to the
‘omsival atmosphere and lofty colloguies of the Athenians described by Pato
find Xenophon

"The Macedonian syroposium provided relaxation fom the presses of wat I.
aso, as we shall see, was ints own way a demanding ordeal, marked y Social
psychological. and physica tension." Much ofthe conversation sems to have
{evolved around recollections of particularly succesful campaigns and an acts of
‘otokm. Both he heroics and file of thse present cold e intoduce, but it
‘was prudent reserve the most Mlatring supratves forthe king. Toasts were
offered 1 celebrate victories, honoe courage, femeer fallen comrades, salute
the gad ancpate future conflicts, and exprers grate tothe king.” All
Avough the tasting, symposasts shared in he camaraderie by iting thi cups,
‘and drinking huge amounts of uodilted. wine. Collsctive solidaty was
xpresed though sialic dinkng, which provided a device for measuring
‘haractr and loyalty. Refusing to patipate inthe festivities might cast doubt
‘on one’s manliness. mii, o even aleiance.

"Alexander's court histrin Calisthene, who fll from grace, once refused 10
nk the King’s unmixed wine Because he knew hat he would need the ancient
‘equivalent of headache abet the following moening "Later Cllisthenes was
‘Sceused a eonspising in an assassination plot Although there were mote serious
“allegations regarding the historian’s behavior (see below), his refusal to stomach


Page 121, Instance 0, Class: Text
(Gia ence! wine was undoubtedly perceived as on insult by the king, and perhaps:

‘8 further evidence of is ack of devotion to Alexander

‘The young king habtualy sceunized himself and eters. The symposium
‘offered an afena in which Alexander coud erty measure the wefulness and
Toyaly of others while elciing tesponses that would eassure him of his ova
‘Womhiness. Competition permeated the eavigoament a the s)mposium: sto
Singers, dancers, musicians. auers, wrest. and sjcophants vied wih ene
nother for royal secopnton and largese.” Alexander delighted in bestowing
‘money and gifts upon individuals

He also enjoyed sponsoring dinkng contests atthe symposia. On atleast one
ccasion the incomes. were Iueatve enough tO result ia fataliies fom
‘verindulgence. Alexander doesnot seem to have competed offical, bute set
fan exiting pace for his guests displaying enough stamina to drink unl light
‘woke the following mocning. Ata small nnking party hosed by bis Thesslian
friend Mediu, Alexandr reportedly drank to the heath of ll went present,
then accepted the sane numberof toasts in retum. He i said 0 have wied
lusuccesflly to match the consumption of Protas, a Macedonian flk-heta,
‘who “ejoyed a study physique thoughout his, although e was completely
devoted tothe practice of drinking ™

‘Protectors of Alexander's eputaton have made Vigorous atmpts to deny his
teavy drinking. Aristbulus even claimed tht the kang stayed pall night st
inking parties out of courtesy to his companions” Plarchrepste silat
‘ationaization in his life of Alexander but rejected the notion inlet Work
‘The veality was thit by 330 Alexander had begun to ely on the good if of
Dionysus with increasing frequeney.” and tis habit began Io contibue to a
teansormation in is personality. Thee is only one common tread interwoven
tHvoughout the ancien accounts: excesive dnking. More than any cher single
factor, this helps explain the metamorposs in the man,

sod

tas found

his

way

(a. 1391)
‘THE BURNING OF PERSEPOLIS (330 BC)

‘Remote, and litte more than anarne to most Greeks, Prseplis ws the ceremonial
capital of the Achicmenid Empise-” Pesan kings journeyed t0 this city
Snnualy from Susa or Eebatana (Hamdan) wo undergo a itu ene val oftheir
‘fice Held inthe spring, when Pesins celebrated the New Year, te ceremony
‘was fllowed by acceptance of homage and tibue from representatives of all


Page 122, Instance 0, Class: Text
Phrygians, Lydians, Cappadocians, Armenians, Indians, and even Seythians were
among those who came to oer wibate and place their offerings atthe foot of the
(Great King's ove

"The grand processional stcase of 111 steps was an impressive 50 fect wide.
“The remuins ofthe Hall ofthe Hunde Columns and the super portals of the
Apadana suggest thatthe city, bepun by Daas the Great and completed by
‘Xto.s, successfully symbolized the unity ofan empise ht stetched fom the Nie
to the Indus andthe Jxartes tothe Indian Ocean, and encompassed much ofthe
‘own world Persian Kings were buried a Persepolis, where he jeweled golden
‘inc, which was symbolic ofthe Tee of Lite, was also house

“Aicxander’s men sacked the city shorty afer entering it, and wholesale
carnage ensued.” The last time his tops had been permitted unbiled pillage
‘was at Gaza, where the King had he with Herc opposition and was neat Kid
luring the siege Now his woops wete again grated license for sevenge onan
enemy tat had recently mashaled an equally spied defense atthe Petsian (or
‘Susian) Gates” during which Aleander was forced to abandon bis allen woops
fon the batlefield—oidiarily an acknowledgment of defeat in anil
Psepolis was a iy of singular opulence in an empie of unpulele che.
‘The oops, constrained at Babylon and Sus, reveled wih beats abandon,

Royal approval of the pillage may have been inspsed by an unstling
encounter With mutated Geoks on te plains ouside he ety" These eect
erated captives some without hands, ters without eas and noses, fished
evidence thatthe Persians had et off any eateities unesenil tothe Work
‘hey had been asigned. Alexander wept openly atthe pasos of this scene and
voluntered to arrange their return homer Ths allt overture was polily
{efwsed because these men, many of whom were ald, knew tha their wn people
‘would see them ss grotesque adits, Furthermore, many of them hal mared
‘slaved women by whom they had childen This macabre group alized that t
‘was by remaining among themselves, at apt from the rest of the word that
they would e ale wo preserve some depree of sl-espect.

"The king was impressed by the wisdom of thir decision. He grated thei
request for land and made a generous donation of money and peo Visions
[poviding yet another example of Alexander's concern for those ignored. of
persecuted by ethers. The fact that he alone was able to act a a eneftor 1
people “without a county” may have pleased Alexander.

‘While his woops ransacked the ct, the Ring tok contol of the palace area
andthe Treasury. which yielded the immense sum of 120,00 talents in uncoined
bullion.” In total, Alexander had accumulated approximately 180,000 talents
Fourmonths, sn amount doubtless incomprehensible to Europeans During Pili’
‘eign the expropeiation ofthe gold mines nthe vicinity of Mount Pangacum bad
‘uranced the Macedonian king what was then considered 1 be a slaggering
‘nual income of 1,000 talents. Ukmately Prmenio was ondeted to convey the
‘ease (7.290 tons of gold and silver, by Donald W.Eagels' estimate)” 19
Echatana, the capital of Mea, onthe backs of 20.000 mules and 5,000 camels
‘The king no longer need concern hanself over none.”


Page 123, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander stayed at Persepolis for about four months, probably fom the
‘mide of January dough late May of 330. 1 it had been possible he would
‘probably have resumed the hunt for Darius, but supplies wee sarc along the
‘50o-mile route toward Ecbatana and the weather was igi, This factor had been
underscored by a previous expedition agains local titesmen. Cri offers an
insctive description of the conditions presented by the local climate, and
‘Aleander's response to this challenge:

‘The desolation of the terrain and the tickless wilemesstetified the

exhaisted soldiers, who tought they were looking atthe Limits of the

‘world, They gazed in astonishment athe total desolation with no sigh of

‘human culvation, and they clamoured to go back before daylight and sky

aso came to an ea. The king refrained vom eeproaching them foe thei

fear, Instead be jumped fom his horse and proceeded to make bis way on
foot tough the snow and hard-packed ie. His fends were ashamed not
to follow hin, andthe feeling spread his generals, and, lly. the men,

‘The king was the fast wo clear a way for hinsl, using an ane to beak the

fee, and hen the others followed is example

66349
‘Afer spending 4 mont inthe fel, leaving local rites speechless with his
‘sudden appearances out ofa fozen wasteland, Alexander elected 0 tun 19
Persepolis and join inthe ongoing celebation, While drusk at a symposium, he
acted ina Way he Was soon wo repet™

Your mind

Alisectad

(a, 332)
“The sone is rested by Diodorus:

‘Alexandr held games in honour of his victories. He performed costly

‘crfices to the gods and entertained bis fiends bountiful. While they

‘were Teasing and the diaking Was far advanced, as they began 10 be

drunken a madness ook possession of the minds ofthe intoxicated pues

‘Atihis pot ene the women preset, Thais by name and Ate by gin,

‘id that for Alexander ic woul be the fines ofall is fet i Asia if be

joned them in a eumpbal procession, set fet the places, and permite

‘Women’s bands in minute o extinguish the famed accomplishments of

the Pesian. This was sid to men who were sill young std giddy with

Wine, and so, as would be expected, someone shouted cut 0 form the

omnis and 10 light torches, abd urged all w Lake vengeance forthe

estruton ofthe Geok temples. Others wok up the cy and said that his


Page 123, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘Alexandr held games in honour of his victories. He performed costly
Sacrifices to the gods and entertained bis fends bounty. While they
‘were Teasing and the diaking Was far advanced, as they began 10 be
drunken a madness ook possession of the minds ofthe intoxicated pues
‘Atihis pot ene the women preset, Thais by name and Ate by gin,
‘id that for Alexander ic woul be the fines ofall is fet i Asia if be
joned them in a eumpbal procession, set fet the places, and permite
‘Women’s bands in minute o extinguish the famed accomplishments of
the Pesian. This was sid to men who were sill young std giddy with
Wine, and so, as would be expected, someone shouted cut 0 form the
omnis and 10 light torches, abd urged all w Lake vengeance forthe
estruton ofthe Geok temples. Others wok up the cy and said that his


Page 123, Instance 4, Class: Text
Alexander stayed at Persepolis for about four months, probably from the
‘mide of January dough late May of 330. 1 it had been possible he would
‘probably have resumed the hunt for Darius, but supplies wee sarc along the
‘50o-mile route toward Ecbatana and the weather was igi, This factor had been
underscored by a previous expedition agains local titesmen. Cri offers an
insctive description of the conditions presented by the local climate, and
‘Aleander's response to this challenge:

‘The desolation of the terrain and the tickless wilemesstetified the

exhaisted soldiers, who tought they were looking atthe Limits of the

‘world, They gazed in astonishment athe total desolation with no sigh of

‘human culvation, and they clamoured to go back before daylight and sky

aso came to an ea. The king refrained vom eeproaching them foe thei

fear, Instead be jumped fom his horse and proceeded to make bis way on
foot tough the snow and hard-packed ie. His fends were ashamed not
to follow hin, andthe feeling spread his generals, and, lly. the men,

‘The king was the fast wo clear a way for hinsl, using an ane to beak the

fee, and hen the others followed is example

66349
‘Afer spending 4 mont inthe fel, leaving local rites speechless with his
‘sudden appearances out ofa fozen wasteland, Alexander elected 0 tun 19
Persepolis and join in the ongoing celebration, While drunk at a symposium, be


Page 124, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘was dod worthy of Alexander alone, When the king had caugt fre athe

‘word, al leaped up fom their couches and passed the word along to for

2 Nicer procession a honour of Dionysus. Promplly may tovees Were

fatbered. Female musicians were preset atthe banquet so the king led

therm al ut forthe comus to the sound of voices and Mts and pipe,

‘Thais the courtesan leading the whole peeformance. She was the fst after

the king, ob her Blazing torch in the palace As the oes all did the

same. immediatly the ene palace area vas consumed, so geat Was he

‘onflgration Ie wus most emakable tha the impious at of Nexes, king

fof the Persians agains the acopolis a Athens should have been ep in

ind aftr many yeas by one Wwoman, a eizen of dhe land which bad
salleed i, and in spon.
0772-6)
‘Macedonian sors under the assumption ht an accident had occured, rushed
to extinguish the ames. AMterealizng the actual etcumstances, however, they
hherfl joined in the tossing of feb.

Plutarch states tat “iis apeed [among Nstorans) that Alexander quickly
sepented and gave arets for the fire to be put out” (388). Cuts says “iis
‘snerlly agreed that, whe sleep had brought him back to hie senses after his
drunken bout he epreed his actions and said thatthe Persians would have
Ssuleed a more grcvous punishment a the hands ofthe Greks had they bee
Fenced o see him on Xerxes’ throne and in bis palace” (5.7.11),

"Ain offers substantially diferent version, He recreates scene in which
Parmenio urges the king to preserve the city simply because it makes no sense 10
estoy ones own property: Devastation ofthis sort, Parmenio ads, would serve
‘otc othe Persians that Alexander merely planed o conquer thei empite and
‘move on and this would discourage allege. The King. we ae tol. had 8
diferent motive.” “Alexander sid that he wisbed to punish the Persians for
Saking Athens and buming the temples when they invaded Greece and 0 exact
‘eurbauon fr all the othe injuries they had doae to the Gresks® G.18.12)°"
Based on Ptolemy, Atvians account explains thatthe whole afar was ap act of
cealated policy, and moder scholars folowing Avian have ether ignored
‘This o simply dismissed her as a omante invention

‘We do know from an insrption, however ha his same Thais who was
implicated inthe Persepolis scenario i accounts odor than Ari's Was (oF
‘ecame)Ptoleny’s mises and had thee children by hin. se suprising hat
the man who ruled Egypt would ignore her patiipation when he Weot about
this senseless act? His Version of the episode ab being based on a reasoned
decision on the king's pat both exculpated Thais through discret sence and
efended Alexander against the chatge that he acted in a ft of drunken
inesponsbiliy

Think


Page 125, Instance 0, Class: Text
you

ust have seen

how Babs

jested

the palace

(a. 605-6)
‘An's icf ueatment of Alexander's stay in Persepolis may teflet the
Instoman's own discomfort with what wanspived thee At this point in the
Anabasis, however, he dil fest compelled to recon! one of hs infequent
etc ofthe king: "too donot thik that Alexander sve god sese in
{his ation nor that he could punish Persians of along pas apo" (3.1812) Later
inthe same work Arian adits that Alexander hinsef lamented ths colosal
Vandals when he teed to Pespelis sit yeats Laer and cbserved the
‘magnificent deus tough sober eyes." Only 13 ofthe orginal 72 eolumas
‘emained standing.

He raze the palace

tore ground

‘whet ities

(a. 633)

‘An ancedote relayed by Purch indicates that Alexander was unsure about his
future role in Persia before the ity went up in flames. The sory tell of a huge
statue of Xeres that Was topple by his soles as they forced thei way'ito the
palace. The king pane to des the ate a if k were alive 'Shal pass by
ndleave youlsing there because of theexpedition you ed agains Groce, shall
T'set you up again because of your mignaninsty and your vues in other
sespecs?” 37.5) Alexander ile pondered the question in font ofthe state
‘efore passing ity.

‘Alexander was athe crossroad of his expedition. The notion of a Hellenic
crusade was all but played out, and certainly Would have to be abandoned once
Darius I was either killed or captured. At that point the king's Greek
Volumes” were to be dismissed, while his Macedonians would need
persuasion to continue campaigning zealously across terra incognita toward some
{known objective. There was joy in seeing the king in he vanguard of the
Incvated incendiaries at Persepolis, because the woops believed it mean hat
‘hey would soon he returning home The toching Of the royal palace Was
understood © bea iting climax to a vietoious expedition. They had no idea
‘ar thee epic journey had just begun, noe were they aware that they were
accompanying leader who was in the proces of personal tansformation.

‘hat

ened vou there mow’?


Page 126, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander's prolonged stay in Persepolis was “likely to bethe effet of uncertainty
land anxiety over what was happening in Grece.” Badin tls us.” At fist
lace this scems dificlt to understand, especially if one scceps the walitonal
‘ew tht Antipater ad wiunped over the Greck insurgents jast before the
Ite of Gaupamel. In that ease Alexander would have head of the victory
‘wel before he ied the palaces at Persepolis nd would have had ao compelling
‘eason to comin o court Greck opinion in such an extravagant Wa

dian argues thit the bate in Gresce dd no take place unl the spring of
330." Therefore, because of regional communicaions Aleander might nt yet
have leamed of Antpate'svctry when he "it the funeral pye ofthe Hellenic
crusade." Ir this ns, Alexander, atthe tine ofthe Burning ight sl ave
‘boca posturing a knight ean in the service of Hellenic elu

‘Nonetheless. without resorting to ingenious explanations that pervert the
cual event, it emis dificl to defend the these that Alexanders sctons st
Persepolis were premeditated. The fact i that Alexander's own ten, wh were
{nvasably well informed abou the king's movement, raced ote scene in exer
to deat with what appeured to them to be a very serious acide, with
coruscatng flames and coda afters crashing to the Hoo rom 60 feet overhead
‘Aso, the blaze prediculy got ou of contol and became dangerous to oth
‘Alexander and bis staf Its inconceivable thatthe king would have filed 10
‘let his own fi brigade if uch holocaust had been premeditated. Known as 8
‘meticulous planner Alexander would have taken the necessary precautions 19
‘minimize he chance of injury to himself and his offices.

‘The Treasury, no doubt ransacked wel before the conflagration, was severely
damaged. A mysterious tal of coins unearted by archaeologist in our own
century probably testifies to frantic last-minute efforts to make sure tht no
‘monies vere lft behind, Also, had Alexander decided on sch a ani spectacle
in advance, he would undoubledly have orchesvated the occasion in an
Sppropriae manner hoping to earn the admiration of Hellas through his
Mamboyane gesture. seems clear hat this was not the ese.”

‘lames lat ou fom isting wand

ashe [Dion]

(ba. 46-8)
In any event Darius was now reported to beat Echatan formulating his plans.
‘Alexander marched north tome htn at his earest opprtuniy. With ony 6
(00 fooumen and 3000 hoesemen presenlly at his disposal the beleaguered
Persian king withlvew the 7.000 talents avaiable at Ecbatana and hued
‘asta leaving the ety anya week oro before the bulk of Alenande’s Woops
‘vived there


Page 127, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The nows of Anpatr’s victory in Greece, which probably eached Alexander
‘en out to Echatana eae fora eformulaton ofthe king's objectives. The ie
ff a crusade had ended, forall practical purposes, wah the destruction of
Persepolis. Alexander therefore decided to dismiss the Greek troops set on the
expedition by the Corinthian League. SUll shor of manpower. howevee, he
‘offered the string su ofthe talents as «bounty to everyman who chose 1
enlist a a mercenary’ Faced withthe atractive ponpect of becoming fick
fovemight, many of the Greeks, including « good poston of the Thessalian
‘aval. agioed to sigh on. Men who chose to go hone were given a substantial
‘onus and became living testimony of the fortunes avalale 1 those Who
campaigned wit Alexander. The expenses involved inthis episode amousted 1
eather 12 of 1,000 talent. but money seems to have been imporant 19
“Alexander only insofar ab Tacitated his objectives. From is point of view, it
‘wae a bargain,

“Alexander's Grek toops had thus become professonalized and dependent
‘upon the king dough his paymaster.Panmenio had supervised the conveyance
of the Treasury to Ecbtans, but Hapalus, Alexander's renegade frend. had
‘oen reinsated as the Imperial Treasurer. Pamenio, now 70, was stationed in
[Echutana to guatd the Teast and supervise communications as Alexabder
‘moved eastward. The general's function vas importa, and bis assignment could
te seen a a reward for his ong, distinguished service, bt i also removed im
from cour and the corridos of power.

“Alexandr, now approaching 6, had come into his own He no dou felt that
‘he could manage the campaign gute well without the advice of 4 mashal who
‘ad become a legend while the king Was sill n swadding clothes. Alexabder
sppointed Cleander, probably at Parmenio's request tobe the general's second-
‘command. Subsequent events would diclose the ephemetal nae of that
‘hata’ loyalty to the aging marshal

ORIENTALIZATION

‘The fate of Dass IT was uimatly sealed by his own followers rather than by
‘Alexander. Diseachanted with his leadership and alarmed atthe possibility that
{heir hapless King ight fll it the hands of Alexander while sl alive, his own
Subject attacked Darius with jvelins as the enemy closed ia" In August 330 8
‘Macedonian sold, as he stopped to fetch water, noticed some Wounded oxen
tached i a covered wagon.” He heatd a human voice wailing fom side the
Yebicle and was astonished to discover that it was that of the Great King. in
chains and wrapped in'a blooddrenched mantle. When Alexander asived
Darius was aleady dead. The young king touche by his foe's pathetic demise,
‘tsed his own cloak to cover the lifeless body."

poor foot

Sho.


Page 128, Instance 0, Class: Text
amd chariot

‘was not destined

tocvade

the evi spits

of desrstion

en)
‘The compe was embulned and sent back to Persepolis to be placed in the
company ofthe other Achaemenid rulers buried theres The king had intended
uptre Darius alive and eeremoniusly accep his abdication and submission,
‘The new turn of evens forced Alexander to modify his role and immed
sims. He would soon appear as both the legitimate suecesor to Dass and
Somat dead King's avenge.

‘One ofthe assassins, Bessus, the sap of Bactia anda member of the royal
‘house son lad lim Yo the kingship himself and adopted the name Artaxeraes
(V)- From the safe eeveat of his ow texto inthe northeastern repion ofthe
Persian Empice, Besus, who had acquted himself well at Gaugamela, intended
to press his clan and rid Persia ofthe foreign invader Alexander accused
Betas of regcide and announced bis intention to bing hi to justice for this
sino xe

‘Alexander now used the Achaemenid signet while deaing with Asian
«questions and the Macedonian royal ing when it came to European ali.” He
Sought the support of astocratc Persians some of whom were Willing accept
‘him asthe sig hee to the done. Oxyativs, the beater of Diu. was
appoined one ofthe king's Companions—the fst Asiatic tobe so honozed”
“Anabazs, the father of Barsin (ho gave bit wo Alexanders legitimate son),
‘who had been in exilat Pella, pledged his support as wel a hata seven of his

Th exchange for his obeisance, Nabarzanes, the Persian Grand Vizier (oe
Cilia), as pardoned for any sole he might have played in Datus
assassination, The Grand Vizier had hoped 1 ingatate himself with Alexander
by aniving With lnurious presen.

winging gts to Achilens

‘which might soften

is anger

dL 24119)
Included among these gs was Bagoas, “an exceptionally good-Jooking eunuch
in the very flower of his youth [with whom. Darius had had asexual
felasonship.and. Alexander...09" (C1623) Thewe is no question that
‘Alexander was also very fond of Bagous. He was influential in Alexander's
sscepanceof Nabazancs and ltr instrumental inthe disctediting and death of
‘sine, a Persian nobleman who had slighed dhe eunuch. The name Bagoas


Page 129, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Yow 326 (Aled 101-16), nd is also found on a let of meldences where
‘Alexander is sd to have drunk while carousing a Bcatana dung the ast year
ofthis ite.”

The question of Alexanders sexual involvement with this yout s insoluble,
‘but itis woth noting that Bago, too, belonged to a special category of people
‘who posed no fal heat othe king and who owed eveything they had wo him. >
“This seems to have been an optimal lationship fom Alexander's point of view
Bagoas beefed as well and not just a a teipent of Aleander’s largesse. The
king's good wil protected Bagoas fiom Europeans, many of whomn may have
found the notion Of eunuchism grating, although under the eicursances, they
‘Kept any negative thoughts to themselves,

Tie you

ser warning

fools

place

fo chains

(a, 508)

‘The king's woops probably found Alexander's affection fr the eunuch much
les interesting tha any relationships he tay have had withthe 365 beatifal
‘Asin women he had inherited fom Darius. I is improbable, however, that
‘Alexander ever excised his royal prerogative to sleep with a diferent oman
everynight ofthe year" It is move key that his tention ofthe Great King's
harem and public pauonage of eunucks wore designed to conibule 10 a
semblance of cominuity in the Achaemenid kingship. and Hheeby belp 19
‘omot his acceptance among the Persian elite

"To further enhance his chances of being acepted as a leptimate euler bythe
Persian nobility. Alexander thought it nacesary to make some changes i his
appestance and mannerisms. With this in mind, be began to wear a mesied
Version ofthe Achaemenid royal diss, and t adopt some aspects af Persian
[potcol at his cou. These innovations were introduced gradually in ante
{0 mitigate the resistance anticipated onthe pat of his fellow Macedonians.

‘At fst oly handful ofthe kina close tends and few Asaics witnessed
this raaformation, Subsequent this new” Alexander could be seen siding in
public and presiding a cour. Dscreelly avoiding ganmens that were likely 19
‘ii idicule, such the Baggy Persian trousers and the cand, purple a gl
‘upper garment with loag wide sleeves, the king Sted fora Blend of costume
far Pltrch alls more modest than the Pesan and tore stely than the
‘Moaian varieties” His tie included a purple and whit chiton and the royal
liadem, and a puple-aibboa eacicling the kasi, a wadiional Macedonian
inde


Page 129, Instance 2, Class: Text
appears on roll call of the king's naval oficers presented by Nearchas for the
year 326 (Ald. 181-10), and is also found 0a a list of residences where
‘Alexander is sd to have drunk while carousing a Bcatana dung the ast year
ofthis ite.”

The question of Alexanders sexual involvement with this yout s insoluble,
‘but itis woth noting that Bago, too, belonged to a special category of people
‘who posed no fal heat othe king and who owed eveything they had wo him. >
“This seems to have been an optimal lationship fom Alexander's point of view
Bagoas beefed as well and not just a a teipent of Aleander’s largesse. The
king's good wil protected Bagoas fiom Europeans, many of whomn may have
found the notion Of eunuchism grating, although under the eicursances, they
‘kept any negative thoughts to themselves


Page 130, Instance 0, Class: Text
fel

‘ough

ay

ind

somehow

changing

(Ba. 1269-70)
AY the same time that Alexander was meuiying his own ate, the Royal
Companions were presented with puple hats and white cloaks with @ puple
‘order. Wihin the later citcle, Heplueson and 4 few othe Seem to have
‘opted the new dies witout reluctance. Craters, however, one ofthe king's
blest commanders, continued to des inthe customary Macedonian fashion

‘Alexander, we ae told, offen remarked “wat Hephaestion was a fend of
‘Alexandr’, while Craters was fiend ofthe king” 47.10)" Both men
‘were extremely useful to him, but each ina dtferent fashion. Hephestion served
{haliaison withthe Asis, while Caters dealt with the Macedonians. Inthe
fend Craters would be sent back to Macedonia to replace Antpaer, while
Hepbacston remained in Asia, second oly to Alexande.

“Ancient Gresk folklore credits Alexander's mythological ancestor Perse,
who makes no move thin & fleeting appearance in ur accounts of the king
‘with providing an carly bide between Grecks and Asians. Also an heroic
wander, who travelled noth of the encircling Ocean to feast wilh the
Hyperbveans and south across Eihiopia to eeseue Andromeda, Perseus is best,
semombeed for beheading the eil-eyed Gorgon, Medusa, whose look petiied
‘or beholder. In ppteiation fr the istuctions of Athena and the use of her
shel, Pescus dedicated his wophy to the godess, who wove ion ber beast as
‘Would her mortal charge, Achilles. The Alexander Mosul poteays the King With
2 Gorgon oa his cass (beastplats) ia the Achillen dion, which Was
‘cualy rote in the exploits ofa paternal ancstoe.**

Ad icin the midst fal

‘was the blank-eyed face ofthe Gorgon

‘with her tare of eran

and Feat

‘was inscribed upon it

cod

‘Teor

UL 1136-7)
‘Perseus, who is described as “pre-eminent among all men" inthe Hiad (14.320)


Page 131, Instance 0, Class: Text
with Ariadne and an entourage of female devotes. The her unthinkingly
challenged the ent woupe and used. Medusas bead to slay the Dionysiae
Taihu In one ession of this tle, Dionysus hinself i sid to have been
‘murdered by Perseus and tossed the ey Waters of Lema, which ead down into
the neterworld. Later embellishments have these two sons of Zeus reconciled,
‘bu Dionysus would show that hebid along menxy when dealing with he heroic
descendant of Perseus,

Herodotus elle us that Perseus lent his name tothe Persians, who were sid to
tbe hit offpring Pll of remorse afer inudveteny kiling Acris, his wn
‘srandfaber, Perseus refused the kingship at Argos and wavelled wo Asia ive
‘ut his final dsys, There Andromeda bore him sn named Perses, who became
the first in a ong line of Persian kings. Wheo the Persians invaded Grosce during
te fifth century, they pointed 1 Perseus ia thet Tanily wee as pat of the
{station for claiming what was thei. This most have been on Alexander's
‘ind at the ae of bis invasion in 334. Toa number of mythographers “Perseus
‘ecame the her af integration betwen Fast and Wes.” and a similar concept
‘ay have served asthe model fr some ofthe King's ate polices.

“Alexander's erintalization was bite sesented by his Macedonian, and a
‘int of subdued tension began wo sulfse his court, Later this would erupt into
Violet cashes and personal uagedy. At that moment, however most ofthe mea
‘were more concesied about how long the preset (and peesumay al)
campaign would ast. Bessus the sarap of Baetia, was a bood relative of
Darius, and ths a bona fde Persian candidat forthe thvve. He had laid claim
tot! but was ao well om his way to Baca, Alexander instead of taking up
‘he chase, decided to give his amy a welldeserved test at Hecatompyus
(Damghan

‘A rumor ctclated during this pio thatthe expedition was oer and so the
lated soldiers began to load their wagons for he Tong-avaited march bome >
‘Alexander. though, had aleady made the decision to embark on a extensive
fustem campaign, He war alarmed af the army's actions, summoned his
‘Sommander othe royal tet “and, with tears tn his eyes, complained that be
‘was eing brought to alt in the middle ofa bvllan carer. to tun home
‘mote ike a defeated man han a conguerr: tht the obstacle he faced was this
‘men's cowardice but the i-wll ofthe gods who had insted in solers of the
Fighest courage «sudden pning foe home—ihough they would have retuned
there shor with increased glory and fame” (C62.18-19) His commanders
assured Alekander thal they would do anything he asked of them. To prove tbeit
‘it, they openly competed wth one another for the most dificult asignments,
‘The di el, however tat it was necessary fo the hing to aes the ops i
fetoa if he wanted them 10 carry oa with the samme emhusasm and
eteminaton. “Alexander agieed to speak t0 the ene army aller his
‘commande ha ad an oppostunity to prepare the erowd olsen to itn" (C6,
23.

If the speech delivered by Alexander beats any resemblance to that reported in
CCurius, must have been @ masterpiece of exhortation. Cuts has the King


Page 132, Instance 0, Class: Text
“Begin by iMentilying WILD the weariness oF his men and their Tonging Tor peace
aller so many rugged campaigns. He the announced tat he found ther dese 1
20 home perfectly leptin and claimed hi these vitvies were secure, he
‘Would be the fist to tu back Ia fae if dat were uve, no one, he declared,
Including themselves —-his own sldlers—could prevent him fom retuming 1
‘is mother and sisters o enjoy he fut oF victory tha thei alr had won"

But ourempite i new and, if we ae peepaed to admit che wut, unstable
the barbarians ail old thee necks sf Beneath the yoke we ae dealing
witha pack of will animals they are nstrallyinacable, and even
cipured and confined they will nly be tamed by the passage of ine
‘The moment they see our backs tured they wil ll be afer us (ed by
Bessa man who commited the most heinous eime by keeping his
‘own King in ioasand finally illiag im-[dis same man might son
‘be devastating the cies of Greece or the Helepoot. Wha pangs of reget
‘wil you fol then tht Bessus deprived you ofthe ewardsof your vc?
‘A Tour das’ match remains fr us, for men whe have weden so many
Snows, forded so many rivers, crowed so many mountain ranges, Out
[popes snot impede by a seatat covers the coud With a surging ide or
‘topped by the cramping defies of Cilla-everything befor us lat and
easy. We stand on the desbold of vitry
(63616)
‘We ae tol that his men were so impyessed with Alexander's wor that they
asked “hi wo lead them wherever he wished” (641,
He spoke
ad edhe way
fd the et of them
‘ame after hin
‘with unearthly clamour
uei2asi-2)
Although the speech related by Cutis is colored by the Roman historia’s aie
forte hetoial, its simular i one and pouch to others recorded in Asian's
‘Work and should not be summarily dismissed as being devoid of veracity or
Value "Like speeches also described by Avian of Alevander ding eer ines
‘of criss, i displays a clever osiltion between flatry and reproach, and is
‘designed both to confound the kins sors and vo induce them to act aa Way
that would remove any doubts thal Alexander might have ha abou thei loyalty
fad devotion. The king's actual plans forthe next campaign were dstoned


Page 132, Instance 3, Class: Text
1 12.251-2)
Although the speech related by Cutis is colored by the Roman historia’s aie
forte hetoial, its simular i one and pouch to others recorded in Asian's
‘Work and should not be summarily dismissed as being devoid of veracity or
Value "Like speeches also described by Avian of Alevander ding eer ines
‘of criss, i displays a clever osiltion between flatry and reproach, and is
‘designed both to confound the kins sors and vo induce them to act aa Way
that would remove any doubts thal Alexander might have ha abou thei loyalty
fad devotion. The king's actual plans forthe next campaign were dstoned
‘enough to make them sound reasonable. followed that anyone who elected 19
‘Shi his ty hs erideal pave ofthe operation would be burdened with the
‘espoasiiliy for the inevitable eaastophes that might occur. Alexandr is
‘died wih siying that tee destination was about a"Moutday snare,” ut the


Page 133, Instance 0, Class: Text
Bactan capital was infact 450 miles aay and lay across the sow aden Hinds
Kush. Aletander was fll avate ofthis and also knew that even under ideal
ondiions it would take the army atleast one month before could expect
fave. Whea, ater some dela, they finally did appear in this region the
‘Macedonians were tated to two ofthe mow tying yeas of fighting in the
campaign. No significant number of veterans would be eeleased from active
Service ui seven years hence

‘Whatever Alexander sad saved the day. Thoroughly convinced tha this was
te end of the campaign the lst conflict, the final thus, Alexander's men
followed thee charismatic young king across central Asa juss they would
Inte follow him over the bowers of mdm Pakistan. Vaguely avare tht each
“decisive” campaign had away of wanaforming lf in the inal stage of yet
another operation te Woops spoadially made thee dissatisfaction known 1
him. Alexander however. was always ale tose othe challenge. In ft, all
‘but one occasion as We shal es) he succeeded i convincing his Woaps that it
‘wasn their est trents to follow tei king.

“Alexander's generosity elped dul thei awareness of moving in and out of a
‘monotonous succession of alien worlds The king's commanders were granted
‘Sums of money and Hefdons beyond ticr wildest imaginations Plath writes
{of "Hapoon of Teos, who wore silver nal in his boots: Leona, who bad the
‘dust with which he spinklod his body for wrestling ought by eamal-tain fom
Egypt and Pilots who hunted with nets that could enclose space of twelve
sles (40.1).

‘Olympias complained to Alexander that his immodeatebenefatons made
‘ings (and ence competitors) out of his Stns” But her son still found
‘stenation amusing ia oes. He was move Uoubled by men who refused his
fills than tose who seguesedthem—abother reflection, it would sem. af his
‘own insect

‘THE PHILOTAS AFFAIR (330 BC)
Alexander's pusuit of Bessus into Bactia had to be abandoned when news
teached the King tht one of his Persian appoities was in open rebellion
Saubuzanes, the sarap of Aria, had submited to Alexander and. been
confirmed in ofie. but short afte the hng's parte Satibarzanes massacred
the foreign gatison lfc asst him ad tok Amtacoana (probably ner rode
Herat) de capita ofthe province. Aletander was rately so anxious to achieve a
objective that he woul oleate disoyay r allow «deployment of his rong
te jeopardized, and 0 he raced 70 ies in two days back to Aacoana with &
‘hand-picked force. The astonished Saibazanes ld o Baca ator than sk 8
confrontation, and Alexandr subved any signs of sebellio in the satapy with
‘uta determination. The king soon became avate that there were similar
ificlies to te south in Drangiana and decided that his presence was needed
there in order to secure the province, After suppressing that rebelion, Alexandet


Page 134, Instance 0, Class: Text
(ooad his gummy mnie for nino Geys ot Pende (now Focnh), near Lates Selsten im
‘modem Afghanistan.

Tews here that «plot to Kill Alexandr was hatched among some relatively
cbscure young Macedonian aristocrats For reasoas unknown, Dimaus,
‘Macedonian youth and several of his comrades had agreed to assssnate
‘Alexander. Dimnus disclosed the details o his lovee Niomachus, wh, ia tum,
{old his brother Cebulins. Cebulinus then approached Philous with the
information and asked for an aiienee with the king. Philos ceplied that the
King was busy, but gave awurances tha he would apprise Alexander of the
situation, When i became clear dung the following day that, for whatever
‘eason, Philos (wbo sa the King tice dally) had ne yt reported this mater
to the hing. Cebalinus punched. He contacted Mewoa, 2 page in charge ofthe
mary, abd this young an Took the informant dee 10 Alexander

“The king oedeed his men to aest Dimaus, while be personally steogated
CCetlinus about the plan to assassinate him Whe it Deeame evident that
(Celina had ben are of the plot for two days before approaching Metwn,
‘Alexander became suspicious of his lyaly and cided him putin chaos
(Cetin shouted hysterically chat athe very instant he head about the plan be
‘had rushed wo Plo and had received guaranoes thatthe situation Would be
‘ported tothe king. Alexander “asked again if he had approached Pilots if be
‘had insted that they come to Aleuande. When ‘Cobalinus persisienly
‘eaffimed his story, Alexander eld his hands upto the sky and, bursting int
tears, temoaned the fact that he had been so vepad by ane who fad formeriy
‘een the dearest of his Hiends" (C6728),

"Through aselfaflicied wound, or asthe result of his resisting amet, Dinas
was dead before he could be iteogated. Philots was then summoned to the
King's quarters and asked to justly his fale t provide the king. with
information of such a vital nate In Curis” account, Pilots says that he had
Tent no eredeace to the information because of is souee, and claimed be Was
feluctant to sty anything out of fear that he would be ridiculed for aking &
Tovers qual too seriously. Now, in light of the circumstances of Dims
death, twas cleat him that be had tad a serious mistake in judgment, and be
‘egaed the king's forgiveness” Philos embraced the king and implored hi
‘emember his pas record and see this as an eto of omusion ether than one of
‘commission. The Roman histoian could ot "say whether he King belived im
for kept is anger concealed deep in his heart. He offered Philos his ight hand
{a sign of econclition, and sid that in his opinion it was a cise of
‘information not being taken seriously rather than being deliberately uppresed”
(6735)

You have my promise

tes


Page 135, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Later a that day, however, the king called a meeting of his close fiends to hear
‘Nicomchs’ story inthe absence of Pilots, Subsequently his ends’ opinions
were solicited

Cates, ho had nought to Alexander's attention certain intemperate
‘emurks made by Paieni’s son when he was in Egypt, and "was oot unuwae
‘hat Philos’ excosively boast ak about his courage and his services bad
foflen grated a the eats of Alexander” (C1683), spoke at length. He sized the
‘opportunity to discredit Philots by making cas for is iavovement inthe plot,
{in ied fo persuade Alexander that abeolving Piltas would be a grievous
‘ror on the kins pt He went on, "Tish youhad also dscussedthis matter with
‘usin the begining’ you were et on purdoning Phils, we would have urged
{you tokeephim ignorant of how much he owed you, Rater tha than tht he now
‘have cause to think more about his own dangersiace he has ben taken to the
‘wink of death—than about your generosity. You sc, he will always beable 10
plo against you, but you will nt always be abet pdon Pilots" (C6845)
‘The accused would also know, Craters wate, tat he had exhausted the kins's
‘mercy and Would have to make-a beer job of i next time. He argued that
Parmenio, Philos father, would be disaffected by thie whole affair, no mater
‘what the outcome, and tht one day Alexander would be fighing both men if
they were not dealt with immediately. Craters then cleverly placed his
‘nition inthe context of Alexander's oveal objectives: “The enemies We
‘ae abou o pursue ae stl numeous enough. Protect yourself agains! enemies
‘within ou unk. Eliminate tho and [fear nothing froma the foreign” (C68.
»,

"Tas present seem tohavebcenin agreement with Crates that Pilot would
‘over have Fale wo inform the hing if be had not ben a ingleader ora eas an
‘Sccomplice in the conspiracy. It was suggested hat Phlots shouldbe
Iterrogted under torture to determine tefl cope ofthe plc and to ore ith
{0 disclose the names a al ofthe conspzatos. Alexander imposed an absolute
silence conceming all ftir discussions, and then ondeed a rutine march for
the following duy so that noone would be able to anticipate what was about 1
happen

Now

all promises

Tovgeten

53838)

Carus tls us that Philos was invited to Alexander's banguet that night and
engaged in amicable banter withthe king” High anaiety prevailed beneath his
‘charade of convivial, however, and Aleander an accomplished actor whea the
‘Staton elle fo it, must have given the performance of hse. The gathering
fried esl because of the fettious match scheduled forthe wext day and
Phileas was son sleeping soundly. relieved that is enor had ea Forgiven and
‘the whole episode forgotten,


Page 136, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The camp was scaled with armed men inorder to ensure hat no one would be
ble o escape to Media and tell Parmenio what ws about to happen. Creu,
Hephacstion, Pedieas, Leonnatus rigyus (who Was banished by Php at the
‘ime a the Pixdaus aan and Coenus (he jealous baer inlaw of Phileas)
‘were callod to the royal quarters. Ataris loyal veteran, was dispatched with
force of 300 men to Pilots” tent. whote the locked dour was Wwoken down,
‘The accused was aroused fom a deep sleeps ested.

‘And when you ake hm

lap him i chains

fad march im bere

He sal di

ashe dewerves

by being

stoned

death

(Ba. 385-9)
CCurius has Philotas shaking off his drowsiness and, after being shackled,
shouting Words for Aleander, who Was aot preset. "Your Majesty, the bier
‘hated of my enemies has wiumphed over you kindness” (6822), Phot’ head
‘was coveted so hat no one would secophize im as he Was shutded off to the
‘oyal tet On the following day Alexander ondered an asembly at ams, daring
‘which Pilots wou he te or eas,

Philos was no commoa suspect. He was the Commander of the Companion
(Cavalry and soldier with an outstanding reputation for pessoal valor He was
ako the son of Pamenio, general whose deeds were legendary among
‘Macedonian soles, This wa indeed delicate situation. A mishandling ofthis
‘roscution might produce 4 backash tht could spell disaster forte king. The
‘Sonvition and exeeutio of Philtas would have abe cated out with the ume
‘precision evident in Alexander's most impressive vitoes an the batletild

Hard on of Peleus

Your mer

urs you

all

16203)
‘The dead body of Dimnus was bought befoee jury of 6.000 Macedoian
soldiers, ut for sometime thy remained unaforied about the nate of the
{ial and the identities of those involved. The King, who served asthe prosecutor
in such eases, appeared before the assembly witha deeply uoubled look. He was


Page 136, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘The camp was sealed with armed men in order to ensure that no one would be
ble o escape to Media and tell Parmenio what ws about to happen. Creu,
Hephacstion, Pedieas, Leonnatus rigyus (who Was banished by Php at the
‘ime a the Pixdaus aan and Coenus (he jealous baer inlaw of Phileas)
‘were callod to the royal quarters. Ataris loyal veteran, was dispatched with
‘orc of 300 men to Pilots” tent, where the lacked door was broken down,
‘The accused was aroused fom a deep sleeps ested.


Page 137, Instance 0, Class: Text
surrounded by a chorus of close companions, whose grim visages mirrored the
ray ofthe station

“Alexander. afte standing with his eyes xed onthe flor for some tine,
finaly broke the silence. “Men! I was alimst stashed from you by cxioinal
conspiracy: ii thanks to the gods" providence and mete) that Fs ve. And
‘he awe-inspiring sight of your gathering has made me fel even mote angry with
the tats because my fie please in eno, my only plscure—ie hat anh
sll able wo repay all the brave men who have deserved well of me" (C692).

He warned his uoops to ace themselves for the nares of thse iavoled in
the plot and proceeded to indict both Piloas and Parmenio. This stunned the
audlece. Alexander then read an ambiguous leer from Pamenio to his $00
‘with tbe intention of submiting it as evidence. "Fist of all uke cae of
Youslves and then of your people—tat is bow we shall accomplish our
‘pupose”(C69.14). Alexander's itegpctation ofthe text was hati eferred 19
Conspiracy in exms compyeheasile only to dose piv tothe plot: the intonation
‘nis eading must have nade this pont convincingly

‘Alexander admited tat Phlot name was not included among those cited
by Dimnus ina list of eoconspztoxs he gave boc his death He caimed that
Dims” fallure to name Phils ws tore a sigh of his fear of bi than any
‘poo of his innocence, and went onto depict the past eco ofthe acused a
Evidence of his guilt Phileas fendship with Alexanders cousin Amys, Who
‘was executed for weason, and an indiseret comment about the king's experince
a Siwah were submited othe jury

‘Alexandr then converted the tial ino atest of allegiance. “Uabeidled speech
‘as led othe sword ‘which, f you belive me, Phileas has sharpened apanst
‘me or which, i you believe him. he has permite wo be sharpened pans me.
‘Men, you keep on asking me to look ater myst, and now i i within your
power to help me follow your advice. I take refuge in your hands and your
‘Weapons. To survive aginst your wil [ do not wish ut even accordance With
{Your will, survival i impossible unless you avenge me” (C.69.20-4) Phileas
‘was then nought before the group. In spt of the fact that is haughty nature ha
‘made him unpopular in many cites, the stunning reversal of his fortunes
pparealy aroused their compsion. In an effet to alter this sympathetic
envionment, a coruin Anyats, who was devoted to the king. launched &
Vituperative atack on the accused. Phiotas al served the barb, nt us
‘Amatas contended. Had be been successful he argued the king would have
‘heen dcspttd, and they would ll ave bees tapped and unable etura Rome
tore loved ones,

‘Alexander Was not particularly ken on this lin of argument becase i tured
‘is men's thoughts to Macedonia once again, but it Was soon followed by an
‘mpussioned harangue from Costus, to which be had no objection whatsoever
(Cocnus shouted ina voice loud enough to behead by every tht his beset
Jaw ad indsed bevayed te king, bis county. and the army. Coons
<emonsratd his own conviction inthe matter by picking up a ston, which he
Sended to thyow at Phot. He was restuined by the King hinwell, who


Page 138, Instance 0, Class: Text
insisted that the accused be given a fair til and an opportunity o defend
ime

“Alexander coolly asked Piltas whether be was gong ous his native tongue
‘nis own defense. Pilots, as Aleander knew quite well, was nt poticint in
the Macedonian dec. He ad that he woul use Grek, which the King himself
‘tdnanily employed. Alexander, apanst whom complaints about oventalization
‘had bepun toe bead, and who was fluet in bot dialects, commented to the
jury, "Do you see how offensive Philos finds even his native language? He
aloe fels a aversion to leaing i. But let him speaks he peases—only
‘emember that he is as contemptuous of our way of ie as bef of our lngusge”
(C6936), Abaupty, and without explanation, Alexander lt the assembly

Putas began is defense by noting thatthe one man who could acquit bm
‘adjust left the proceedings. Nevertheless, Pilots sd, he was detemnined 1
‘sent his cise, and he di so wih some compelling arguments, The accused
minded everyone that aoae ofthe conspirators ha indicted him, even though
‘hose who are about die sully tll the wuts unsparingly. The oly zal charge
agaist him-—and this confirmed in An's account of his conticuon—Wwas
{hat he had fue torpor the tet." The king himself, be informed the crowd,
‘had forgiven him for this mistake. This, of couse, could not be eonfimed
cause of Alexander's absence, hilt asked if additonal information had
‘en uncovered tht had convinced the king to change his mind. Again the oy
‘man who could answer tat question Was absent

How ould he have been sleping so soundly when he was aes, Pitas
asked, if he thought tat futher evidence agaist him might sill come 10 Light?
He was erin guilty of noe porting the incident, bat mere boy had supplied
the information, and it sounded more like a lovers’ quel between adolescents
‘an anything woth ofthe King’s consideration. He doubted serait fom
the very beginning. and aftr all, on more than one oceasion be had been
laughed at for his nave taking innocuous runs to setous)

His most persuasive argument was that Cebaliaus remained unarmed and at
erty afer divulging this tformation. Philos said emphatically that had be
‘een involved i the plot, he most cerainly Would have muzdred the informer
‘efor the man had an opportunity 10 speak to anyone ese. In additon, and
fpethaps unwise. he reminded the army that his father ad once informed the
King of «plot that ceportely involved Philip the physician and suffered quite an
embarassment as 4 fesult He Wished to pot ou tht sometimes its extremely
‘ical wo know when o speak oto emai sient

‘Throwing hel onthe meey of the cout, Philos plead wit the crowd
to ll him what he might do to exclpae himself. An unsympalotcrespoase
sot hack, “Don't hatch plots against your benefactors” (C6.10-36) Wi this
Pilots senowledged tht he was fighting aTosing bale. Ke was his word
aginst that of the king.


Page 139, Instance 0, Class: Text
tobe caught in
a1 21281)

Bolon, a ende man but courageous fighter who had become an ofice though
4 butlefield commission, sipped forward to Kindle residual animosity toward
Philos. He rected stois of Philos” aeogance and extention. He followed
‘he lead ofthe king by reminding the crowd that twas insulting for a native-born
‘Macedonian to need aterpreies when he spoke wo his own people—namely the
‘Macedonian rank and ie many of whom were ignovant af Greek. The king's
‘bodyguards shouted that Phiotas ought wo be tonto pieces, butte king retuned
‘vabruply as he had lef jst in tme to estore order and adjourn the assembly
‘ntl the following day

"Another meeting betwen Alexander an his close fiends was calld. Thee it
‘was decided, tthe urgings of Hephaeston, Caters, and Cocaus, that tue be
Spplied to Pilots so thatthe whole truth could be known, According to Curis
the king reed to his inner quarters while Philos was being toured,” but
Phu states that Alexander listened furtive o everything that weat oa fom
‘hind “a suetched tupesty.” In any event, Alexander delegated the
‘esponsibility forthe intemogation to bis nner cscle and was appeal satisied
‘withthe confession they extracted, This was ead befoe the reassembled crowd
‘he neat dy inthe presence of Philos, who, unable to Walk by this ims. Was
‘ted in, Philos and those convicted wit him were executed onthe spot.

Never agin

‘will is proud east

sirhim up

to wrangle

‘with the princes

in words

or

tevilemeat

UL 2276-7,

Ii dificult to say whether Pamenio, who had secenlly lost anther son,
‘Nicanor, though illness would have stood ily by at the execution of is lst
son. The old ut able general commanded 25,000 mea who held him in igh
‘gard. He was also in conwol ofthe king's communications and supply systems
Faced, he apparel believed, with the prospect of rebellion from within his on
sans while suounded by an enemy sil capable of anniilaing the entire
Invading force, Alexander decided tht Parmenio would have te killed Soon
asposible.™

“This is no time for hesitation


Page 140, Instance 0, Class: Text
(Ba. 780-1)

“The king recruited Polydaras, who had been a itis of Parmenio, to deliver
coudes to several key members of the generals staff that calld on them 19
Ssssssnate Heir commanding lier Included amoag them was Cleaner.
‘wother of Coeaus, who, it may be veclled, had Deen appointed recently by the
King himself as Parton's scond-in-command, Polsdanas, disguised aan
‘An and taveling inthe company of native guides ona racing camel, covered &
stance of 800 miles in coven days. Alexander held both of his younger
Twothers hostage at Pada to guarantee hat Pljdamas would perform his
‘sain a instucted. Even the fans ofthe native guides were eld a Pada
{o-esute the faithful execution ofthe pla.”

Poljdamas asived at Ecbatna under the cover of darkness and delivered
‘Alexander's instuctions to Cleande, On the nextday he was schoduled to
<alver wo leters to Parmeno, an offical dispatch from the King ad a personal
lect writen under Philos’ own seal Polydamas was greeted warmly bythe
ener, who was found in the company of thse inswueted to Kill im
‘Observing protocol, Parmenio fist read the leer that hove the royal seal and
[pobably contained routine information, Shortly after opening the communiqué
‘earng his son's seal, Parneni was stabbed in the side and chest by Cleander
‘The nhers peeseat also assaulied the general in ower to share ia the
esponsibility or the act

and none stood beside him,

‘who dd not

Sab

him

2237)

‘Te plan worked, bu predictably it spawned confusion snd anger among the
general's oops: Oxder Was estore temporarily when the kings astrtions were
‘ead in public but many of those who hal served under Parmenio fr some time
‘were deply disturbed by this incompuchensible tur af events. Despite the royal
‘tion for what had bsen done, several veterans demande proper bail for
Sn eminent man in war and pesce...who) performed the des of 4 young
‘commander, ofen even thove ofa common soldier. He was..well-ked by his
fotficrs and move popola sill withthe Yank and file” (C7233). Cleandet
‘uncertain ast whether of not Alexander would approve ofthe burial at st di
‘nothing. As the pressure began to mount and discontent began t0 resemble
‘ebellin, be avced 1 the Bria bu severed Parmeni's head and seat it Back
‘Alexander as pot that his oedets had been cated cu”

Fortam

‘Actilleus’ henchman


Page 141, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘conspiracy against Phiots, as does Ernst Badia, who has aged tat Phiotas
‘was the vicim ofa plot dicted hy Alexander.” This thesis suggests that the
ing was looking for an opportunity to bing about the fll af the house of
Parmenio. However the conspiracy against Philos mentioned by Purch
Joba refers tothe fle plaged by members of the king's iner cule, who
Aslked Phileas and ulimately profited trom his downtall. Wolfgang 220
‘Rubinsobn and Waldemar Heckel offer persuasive argument long these lines”*
Helmut Berve, aswell as Fitz Schacherneyr matin tat Alexander simply
seized the opportuniy to remove a fanily that he felt ws enjoying Yoo much
‘estge and power. This posion i eaely compatible with Putatch’s statement
fd Badian’s assertion"!

Parmenio bad had good reason to caution Philos, as he once di to keep &
lower profile! The king had heard of his posturing on several occasions and
although Alexander was often amused a the aectations of his closest fends,
‘hey had to be careful w eemind him hat they knew they owed everything they
‘had ahi, Pilots seems to ave been mae impressed by what he ad dope for
‘Alexandr than what Alexander had done for him. Therefore, wih what he
leary felt was justified anger fueling his emotion, and with usted tends
‘wansfoeming Philos’ enor of judgment into question of his suival
‘Alexander decided o sik. He dso in proficiont and expedient manner. The
<ecsion offered him an opportunity to eliminate th man e et had belted bim
in pivate, who was, pehps a a witness tothe Pixodars ffi the only mn
alive who bad ever sen the King hut,

godlike Achllews

r

sade you

al

that you are now

UL 9.488)
‘The los of Pamenio was a personal loveless than devastating to the king
Although he was estemely popular among the troops" he frequently offered
‘he King advice that was coma 1o Alexander's own plas Parenio's
assignment at Ecbatana which had kee him at a distance, tought elit 1 that
a eadam nad den noceemted tha octarel fous weaisheciee ott ihiestions to,


Page 141, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘The los of Pamenio was a personal loveless than devastating to the king
Although he was estemely popular among the troops" he frequently offered
‘he King advice that was coma 1o Alexander's own plas Parenio's
assignment at Ecbatana which had kee him at a distance, tought elit 1 that
Staion, and also prevented the general fom registering any cbjections to
Increasing retaliation at court. Alexander somehow became persuaded that
‘bah Parmenio and Phileas saw’ themselves on the sume plateau asthe King
‘himself. This situation was both dhatening and intolerable to Bim, ands be
deat with itn the most efficient way posible

"At Phrada the fear thitreaives and finds of those convict sight
themselves become victims of «general purge eesed anxiety thoughout the


Page 142, Instance 0, Class: Text
(HL AL654)

Anata, like Pilots, offered spirited defense. He declared that it was only
‘att for him to seek the company’ of Phioas because of the favor that this
‘an enjoyed with the king.” Moreover, it was a the dee order of he ing
‘imself heteminded Alexander, tht he had recruited some ofthe able-bodied men
{nthe service of Olympia in Macedonia and ths incuted er wath He showed
‘othing but contempt for Polemon, whom he may have helped 10 setieve
Polemen stood before the assembly and wept uaconollably because of his
‘li that he would bear te responsibity for his bothers’ deaths.

‘The pathic natu of the stustion stiveds}mpathy in the crowd andthe
ting, With Years in ter eyes, Alenander's close fends pleaded with the king
for compassion, and hesespende by declaring that he for one was easing is Vote
Foran acguital of he ene fanly. Furthermore, a a peacemaker, he demanded
‘hat Amyntas forgive his bother Plemoo if he wished tobe reconciled to the
‘ing. Amyntas complied cages. The vindication of these men and eters ane
of whom was the Atlus who had helped pursue and impale Philip's assassin,
llevited the concern over the prospect of general purge tals afocded the
king an opportunity to demonstrate his sense of diserimination and ably 10
amet ou justice

Demsas. a Royal Bodyguard who may’ have played a key sole ia the
conspiracy, was also aestd. but be too put up a vigorous defense and Was
‘sequited. However, under ecumslances that remain uncleat, he was femoved
from his post shonly after the tial and is never again. mentions in the
sources Despite Amian's silence about his fate, Demet may vey well ave
‘een executed. His place among the Royal Bodyguads was filed by Polen
the son of Lagus, whose Teco of the expedition became the foundation for
‘Anian's account Cusousy, Amynlas Was Killed in batle soon after the
‘roccedings. By chance or design almost all of those men whose lyaly was
‘questioned during the expediion eventually disappeared fom the historical
‘ards before te death ofthe king bins

“Alexander the Lyncestian, who by now bad been in custdy fr thee yeas or
0, was alo Brought foal afound this dine.” The charge aginst him was
paitepation in a plot in 333 that ironically had een called tothe king's


Page 143, Instance 0, Class: Text
eatin by Parmenio. The Lyncestan, who had probably been seheasing his
efense for some time in eapivity, garbled i in font of the assembly. His
Incoherent mutrings were taken is prima facie evidence of his gil, and be
‘was billed thee and then. Tis convenicay removed any possibility tat he
‘might become a lying point in any future tebllion. Apparel the king Was
tno longer unduly concerned over the reaction of Antipatr, his viceroy in
Europe, to his sow-inlay's ueatment. As Bosworth tells us) Alexander was
‘becoming “increasingly autocrat”

‘Cit and. 6.000 Macedonian infanyien were mashing t0_rsjoin
Alexander wile the evens ofthe Philos afar were unfolding. They rived in
Pada soon afer the Pilots and Parmenio business had Been bought 10
climax. Alexander. it seems, immediatly informed Clits that he had been
Selected long with Hephaestin, as co-smmander ofthe Companion Cava
‘which had formedy been ed by Philos: Whatever his personal response Was 1
alo the ther sting nes, Clits acepted his prometion witout hesitation,

Te way an astute move o Alexander's pat. Cleins’ appoiaameat helped 10
stife'the anticipated rumblings among the vetecns who accompanied him,
‘These uoops wete probaly astonished atthe odental wappings now in evidence
atthir ings court and bewildered by the mutde of Prmenso whe, like Pip,
‘was a paragon of martial vite.

Th the aftermath of all ths Alexander urged his men 10 write home, and
encouraged their cooperation by placing the royal messenger sevice at their
“disposi: These ltrs earmarked for Macedonia were colleced and seemingly
Aispatced, but actually were seeely retuned to the king for examination
‘Alexander carefully scrutinized each episle for eviisms dected toward
himself or his policies. Every soldier who included complaints af this som was
‘eaigned to 4 special unit which Was seatated ftom the fegular army. This
“undisciplined!” company performed ith increible distinction, most likely
‘cate the men fl compelled to demonstrat their loyalty trough exceptional
sallany™ Once again Alexander hod demonstaed bis ability 10 tum a
potential ability into an asset.

Unfortunatly, Philos and Parmenio caused Alexander more wouble dead
than alive Sldirs who were discontented over the changes in heir King, ad in
the kingship sel, could point to their compatiots deus, patculaly the
‘nusdet of Parmenio. as examples ofthe dele inthe Macedonian Way of Ue
‘The numberof men who entertained reservations about the King's virtue now
‘mukplcd, a di the nseurites of man aid to have valued his epution
‘ore than bis fe

“There Were soi unpleasant realities that had toe faced. Perhaps the most
iswessing ofall was the eelization tht among his own men there were those
‘who thought it Would be best for everyone if he Weve dead. Alexander
commemorated his success in avoiding assassination by renaming Prada
Propthasa ("Anticipation") in honor of the measues he had taken to avoid the
fae of his fbr" Nevertheless, the ghosts of Phloas and Parmenio ike tht


Page 144, Instance 0, Class: Text
Pures

‘who

underground

avenge

‘ead men

UL 19289-60)
‘THE DEATH OF CLEITUS (828 BC)

‘Alexander resumed his punt of Bess during the winter of 330, pethaps
‘eaconing that activity would serve a at antidote to any further reflection on the
fatto is oops about what had happend at Prophasa. The hing kept is men
Plodding tough deep snow on at exacting northeasterly march twatd the
‘mountains ofthe Hinds Kush and Bact. In weather far worse han the king had
icipated, he Ted his army across the mountains betven Ghazi and the Kabul
Valle. Here a substatal number of soldiers persed, and many of the
survivors were frosthiten and snowblinded, The men were then given tne 10
‘ecuperae from this shattering oneal and to prepare themeves forthe further
exposure to the elements a even higher altaes tht they would fe when
limbing he main range ofthe Hinds Kush.

in lae March 329 Alexander crossed the mountains once agin, probably
‘tyough the Khawak passat 1,000 fet and led his mea the plains of Buia
below. On the southern face ofthe mountains a cave in «rock bal ie high
‘was pointed out by natives toe ha ofthe Titan Prometheus" whe defied Zeus
by stealing fire fom heaven and binging itt earth. Zeus punished Prometheus
‘by having him chained toa rock nthe Caveass and sending an eagle to feast on
‘is Iver every day- The expan regenerated nighly. and mankind's benefactor
comtinued wo pay this gruesome penalty for thity years. At lst, Alexander's
Sncestoy, Herces, who was uaveling inthe region, ended the bids predatory
‘Seiity with «sho fom his bow. Heracles was forgiven by his father foe this
ttansgesion because of the contribution i made to his son's reputation,
‘Alexanders staf, uilizing the widespread but erroneous belief ha the Hind
Kush was an easly extension ofthe Caucasus mourtans, proclaim that his
expediion had located the cave of Prometheus. The King once again, was
‘waking in he footsteps ofa famous ancestor

Herakes

the high Beane

son of Zeus


Page 145, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander's appearance inthe ealy sping caught his qusty unprepared. Bessus
‘eueated not ros the Oxus (Amn Darya) River into Sogdian, and his fellow
Bactians, angered by the vavaying of Bactan land and dispinted by thie
Jeade's hasty light, deserted btn and bis cause. Alexander's tops crosed the
‘Oxus on stw-filed skins as thy had crossed the Danube. The king 3000
‘ceived word that Bessus, like Das, had been arrested by his own followers
Spitamenes, 4 Sogdian leader, informed Alexander hat Bessus could be ke
‘without resistance if small force was sen, Pokey was dlegued to collect
‘Alexandr’ only sval wo the Persian tone. Spitamenes, the informant, who
‘would be bead from agun, disappeared as he approached

‘Once Bess was aten ito custody, Pokey asked for instuction ato what
to do next Alexander ordted him ound, stripped naked, and collared in a
‘Wooden yoke, the ma of a slve. The eapave was tobe tied to post and
‘ations on the right side ofthe toad where the King and his amy would pss.
‘When Alexander spproached Bessus, be sepped down from his chariot and
asked why he had tetayed Darius, bis king. Kins, and benefactor. Bess
‘epled thar he, like the ees, had aligned himself against Das because twas
‘hoped hat this ation might encourage Alexander to gran them immuniy

"The hing ondered Bessus Mogged while a herald paraded in font of hin,
ecliming his eres wo every passer-by. Alexander thea, accowdng 10 Asian,
“summoned coun of those presen, brought Bessis before them, and
sccusing bim of weschery towards Darius, commanded that is nse and elas
‘Should be cu off an! that he should be taken to Ecata, tobe pt to death
there in the asembly of Medes and Persians” (4.73), The historian registers his
‘etna! rpiet over the excersiveness of the punishment and describes the
‘ulation of Bess “as baat.”

"Alexander's masacte of the Branchidse occured ding this period The
ancestors ofthis group hada ne time ben in conto ofthe oracle of pollo st
Didyma ouside of Miletus. They were accused, pesaps unjustly of plein the
temple and handing is ueasues over to Xerxes. The Branchdae st was sid
‘Were then vlocated to a dstant pat ofthe Pesan Emypise out of fea of tepesal
fn the prt of the incensed local population. Stabo, following Calisthenes
Ulizes his story as an explanation forthe slaughter it was an act of retibution
forthe sacrilegious behavior of tee ancestors”” The testimony in Herodotis™
doesnot seem o support these allen agaist the fan, but Alexander may
Ihave used these charges, whether he belived them or no as justification fe the

"The action, as H.W.Parke has rcetly suggested, may have been pompted
citer by those among Alexander's advisers who stil thought i useful to echo
the thine of Pallenicteiution, or by Milesians accompanying the king.
‘who had feared that ie oracle would be tural to the Branchidae
Nonetheless, this mass mute amounted toa punishient fe somthing that bad
taken place a century and a half before. Parke places this event within the
context of ether age episodes, such a the murder of Parmenio. He ses these
‘8 “symptomatic of the breakdown ofthe mora purpose behind ihe expedition,


Page 146, Instance 0, Class: Text
“Which resulted from its overwhelnung success in...the capture of the Persian
‘apts of Susa, Persepolis and Echatana, Nothing like these gim events had
“disigured the eater capaigns, Tam found a physical explanation—that the
‘igh altiudes and dey at drove the Macedonian commanders to excessive
<daking. Tis tad from his viewpoint the advantage Dati could expla i Bok
sly lapses from the loty standard which he expected of Alexander"

"Aller resting at Maacanda (Sumaskand), Alevander went noth t0 the
Saxartes, While planing anew city on the banks ofthe sver, Alexander turned his
teaton toward the problems which were proliferating in Sogdana Cites such
48 Cjopolis (Uea-Tyube, which had surrendered to him, were soon swept up it
‘what emerged se a pattie reaction tothe king's invasion. The cis were
setaken at considerable cst, including head and thoat wounds 10 Alexander
‘The later left his vision clouded and voice inpuired, A furious Alexander
‘xdeed Cysopois tobe sacked. even though twas city associated with 3 man
‘eel inthe highest esteem."

Ir das not become me

tnrleningly

torage on

dest)

‘The king completed Alexania Esch (he fates) and seed it with Greek
‘mercenaries and Macedonians ao longer it for active soldering. Natives were
impressed into slavery for the seers, and the city was designed to be a
showease that would supersede Cyeopols as the premier oupost an the
‘omteasor frontier ofthe Persian Epi. Alexandria Eschte could also ia the
Tutu, serve asa point of departie for an allout war against he Seythans, Dut
forthe preset it funetoned sa regional defensive centr Recovering fom his
‘Wounds and sill shaky, Alexander personally supervised the constuction of
the walls of yet another ity bearing his name

"The king concetation was disturbed. however, by some Scythian onthe
‘opposite hank of the river, who continually harassed his workes and stung im
‘ith personal insults, Alexander bstled and eslved to eos he iver and wach
his Hookers a lesson, but Artander pote that tbe sacifices were clay
‘unfavorable for such a couse of action "=

Do not hol me back

‘when T would be going

ether Youselt

bead of bad omen

You wll not
penuade me
UL 24218-19)


Page 146, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘which resulted from its overwhelming success in..the capture of the Persian
‘apts of Susa, Persepolis and Echatana, Nothing like these gim events had
“disigured the eater capaigns, Tam found a physical explanation—that the
‘igh altiudes and dey at drove the Macedonian commanders to excessive
<daking. Tis tad from his viewpoint the advantage Dati could expla i Bok
sly lapses from the loty standard which he expected of Alexander"

"Aller resting at Maacanda (Sumaskand), Alevander went noth t0 the
Saxartes, While planing anew city on the banks ofthe sver, Alexander turned his
teaton toward the problems which were proliferating in Sogdana Cites such
48 Cjopolis (Uea-Tyube, which had surrendered to him, were soon swept up it
‘what emerged se a pattie reaction tothe king's invasion. The cis were
setaken at considerable cst, including head and thoat wounds 10 Alexander
‘The later left his vision clouded and voice inpuired, A furious Alexander
‘xdeed Cysopois tobe sacked. even though twas city associated with 3 man
‘he held in the highest esteem."


Page 147, Instance 0, Class: Text
"Nevertheless, Alexander summoned his else fiends and argued i favor of the
crossing. Esgyus, who tough chance encounter with stander had Teamed
fof the bad omens (which Alexander had appareay kept to his?) sed this
Information in his argument against the vente. A surpeised and embarassed
‘Alexander became indignant.

‘Aistander was summoned to the royal tent and eepimande for divulging a
petsnal (ater than official) request on the king's att. Pale abd spechless
“Aistande was fece to sepeat his warnings forall ear He meekly explained
‘har he ws concemed over Alexanders bel and eaed thatthe King ight not
‘be uptosucha task

r

tenibly dread

the swife-footd

son of Peleus

UL 18261)
‘Aistander was dismissed, but reappeared while the same mater was still under
iscasson with the propitious news tht he had just engaged in another sacrifice,
‘which had produced ena more favorable than any be had et soen during his
ie career ™" This revelation silenced the pious reservations of Erigyus, a
‘Well as any othe objections that might have been raise

“The king again used stalled skin to cos the Jsxates. On the opposite
shore he confounded the Seyhians and thei encicling asics, Kiling over ane
‘thousand men and routing the rest." During the pursuit, however, Alexandet
‘dank some comnninated water and came down with «serous case of
Gianhea.™ He collapsed and had to be cared w camp. The king was
“dssppointed a ling to verake the elusive Sethian, but lied by devout
‘courtiers who calculated that ding the chase their king had passed beyond the
‘orcas its eached by the gd Dionysus.

why

son of Peleus

bo you keep afer me

Jn he sped of your feet

‘being moral

‘while

‘immoral god?

UL228-9)
‘A serious setback was experienced. however, in some of the newly acquied
‘enitoies. Spitamenes led Bacuan and Sogdian Woops and oer Scythian a 8
‘concerted effort to undo all of these recent conquests. Maracanda itself was


Page 147, Instance 3, Class: Text
NEVETINENESS, £ MEKANOSE SEMMONEENUS Close Mens and argued mn tavern
crossing. Esgyus, who tough chance encounter with stander had Teamed
fof the bad omens (which Alexander had appareay kept to his?) sed this
Information in his argument against the vente. A surpeised and embarassed
‘Alexander became indignant.

‘Aistander was summoned to the royal tent and eepimande for divulging a
petsnal (ater than official) request on the king's att. Pale abd spechless
“Aistande was fece to sepeat his warnings forall ear He meekly explained
‘har he ws concemed over Alexanders bel and eaed thatthe King ight not
‘be uptosucha task


Page 148, Instance 0, Class: Text
besieged. Alexander dispatched two Macedonian officers and Pharnuches, &
tap, and, confosed over who should command, they al etested to an snd
‘wher only 340 ct of 2.360 men managed survive.”

"Alesandr was stunnad He gathered sing force and teavelld mote han
160 niles in thee days to redress the grievance, but Sptamenes managed 10
<Svapear The King bad to be content with burying his ded arn devastating the
fire epion wo discourage the enemys return Now aware that there fre he
Aad orginally seat was tty inadequate, and that the confusion in command
‘vay alimatly his esponsbiiy, Alexander tested the life of any survivor
‘shocuthed woud of wht ha ken place.

Letevery mouth be hushed

Ba 9-90)
“The hing was frcedto sped he nex two years in actin and Sopa Fihting
a elinive bat ssemingly bigonous eoemy. at whone hands his Woops
xpeiened a number of serious setbacks

Consingy

severly

Baccus

te

ner

leh

ie

ey

(a, 11901)
Foc he ime sing, Alexander wit t Base, Cating short his ay eI
‘te ist sign of utah wether a nt ext by way ofthe Onan Valle.
“rowed the Oxus River, and vided his forces. Following 3 fuer divin of
{he ay, he undertook ie sege of scengly aces eneny opt op
4 rock fortress commanded by Aiamazss™ The King was ld by defenders
‘bat he wuld have to pce solders wth wings he hoped to moun the
‘alls, which were seer on all sides. Aroused by tet haughines nd faced
‘withthe “impossible” Alexander sent outa cll for volutes tained in
‘onan warfare He offered te Insel ssn of 12 talents tthe fit man
‘who reached the sunita tbr bandsome emesis forall ss who
scaled the cliffs. Three hundred mountaineers, equipped wih ropes and ion
ess. made an overnight attempt Thirty fell othe deaths and Were buried in
the huge snow drifts The rest made ito the top and signaled the king with flags


Page 148, Instance 2, Class: Text
© Ba, 1190-1)
Forth time bing, Alexander wintered st Bata, Cuting shot is sty, he left
at ihe first sgn of suitable weather and nem east by way ofthe Oxus Valle.
‘rossed the Oxus River and divided his forces. Following further division of
the anny, be undertook the sige of «seemingly inaccessible enemy outpost sop
‘tock forues commanded by Aiamaves." The king was old by its defenders
that he would have to proce soldiers with wings Hf he hoped to mount the
walls, which were sheer on all sides Aroused by this haughtness and faced
‘wih the “impossible” Alexander seat outa call foe volumes Waid in
‘mountain wate. He offered the incredible sum of 12 talents tothe first min
‘who reached the suman, and other handsome emoluments fr all those who
Scaled the cis. Thee hundred mountincers. equipped with ropes and ion
[egs, made an overnight attempt Thirty fll o their deaths and were busied in
{he huge stow dif. The west made itt the op and signaled the king with Has


Page 148, Instance 4, Class: Text
besioped. Alexander dispatched two Macedonian officers and Phamuches, a
‘cian interpetr to enfoes the gates. The ene coaingent ws aed into
4 tap, ab, confused over who shold command, they all eested to an sland
‘where only 40 out of 2360 men managed wo survive

“Alexander was tunnd, He gathered a stiking force nd travelled more than
160 miles in he days to redress the grievance, but Spitamenes managed 19
lsappear, The King had to be content with burying bis ad and devastating the
elie region to discourage the enemy's etum. Now aware hat the rele fore he
‘had eignally seat was totally inadequate and thatthe confusion in command
‘was ulmatly his esponsibility. Aletanderdatened the ie of any survivor
‘who beathed a word of what al aken place

‘Letesery mouth be hushed

Ba. 60-70)

‘The king was focodto spend the next two years in Buti and Sogdian Sighting
an" clinive but seemingly ubiguitous enemy, at whose hands his Woops
experienced 3 numberof serious stbucks.

Cunningly

ee


Page 149, Instance 0, Class: Text
from the peak, Alexander asked the sug defenders to turn around and view his
sibore oops Saad wt hey su, hy sarees

‘Reuraing'o the bse at Maracas m midto-te summer 328, the
xunrdaty press of hs tye of warfae would soon sie way 1 he
‘loaner of he sympodtim. Aone uch ging, tat oud have been
femora tga.

The deity

fhe sono Zeus

[Dionysus

Buthin who sais,

iene

adhin

fro mecks

teite

‘da 417-24)

“Ths incient took pee ami the frston over enanipled delay inhi
‘anoed march toward adi, and the Bevin fc f the int maj
{htctsexperoned by Macedonians nearly a quero cory. Pues
‘coun ofthe danke eal is probably based the fecalitons of Chars. an
On this occasion “Alexander invited Cleius, the cocommander of the
Companion Cavey share inte ejoyient of ose tactie Crk ft ht
tha in ave trae cas! Clete wns acing ae Ge ad ce
of the shep upon which he bd led poued ions woted after him ashe
‘valle hil oward te ryal quarry. Alexander, ssi, had jst few
tay previonly teamed of Ceiusdreacd a lack aoog the dea tne of
‘Parti, He wa lac a this peter, and cond hi saber, who
agjeed with he King that ths was nol good igh Aletade oreted ur
Aftsings inthe net of Cla’ sa Dts gues arte Before hese
dee co be cao ct. Alesander ha ls Bost negligent be ofa
‘Sligo obligations that day."" The Macdonisn calendar called fran anal
‘Scie wo Donyss, but the king had decided o honor Caso an Polyevess
‘Pony, wo hoor ho ad bots po ested

en

ivy me

tra me

frm hie

offerings


Page 149, Instance 3, Class: Text
from the peak. Alexander asked the snug defenders to turn around and view Bis”
aiborne troops. Started st what they sa, they surendeed

‘Retumiag to the use at Maracanda in midolate summer 328, the
extraordinary pressures of this type of Warfare Would soon give way 10 the
welcome rele ofthe symposium, Aone such guthering, what should have been
2 telaxing event tuned out to be a tease drunken scene that mushroomed ito
personal tgdy.

‘The deity


Page 149, Instance 4, Class: Text
(Ba, 417-28)
“Tis inden took place amidst the fastaion over unatcipsted delays in his
planned march towatd Inia, and the bewildering effects of the fist major
‘eteats experienced by Macedonians in nearly a quarter of a century. Plates
‘account ofthe drunken baw probably based on the ecllections of Chas a
‘eyewitness tthe events."

‘On this occasion Alexander invited Cleius, the co-commander of the
‘Companion Cavalry. to share inthe enjoyment of some atactive Gok fait that
‘ha jus ave rom the coast" Cletus was sacrificing athe tie, and thee
ofthe sheep upon which he had aleady poured bation woted aftr him as be
‘walked hurd twa the royal quartets. Aleander is sad, bad jst afew
days previously dreamed of Cleiusdiered in black among the dest! sons of
Panenio. He was alarmed at this specter, and consulted his soosayers, Who
agreed with the king that this was nota good sign. Alexander exdred burnt
‘offerings in the intrest of Cletus’ suey. but his guest arived before thee
‘orders could be carried out. Alexander had ako been negligent in his official
‘elgios obligations that da.” The Macedonian calendar called for an annual
Scsfce to Dionysus but the kag had decided o hone Castor and Polydevees
(Pollut, tw heres who had become gods, instead,


Page 150, Instance 0, Class: Text
his
prayers
(ba 45-6)

“The Dios, it may be recalled, had been mentioned by Avs i the sume
‘yeah as Achilles and Heracles, and had aso appeared with Alexander and Nike
‘na pulang by Apele."= Perhaps bscause Aletander'slatrers had informed
‘i that he had passed the outer mits of Dionysus’ travels while chasing the
Scythans, the king thought he could nelect the god he had oustanceds and
lec instead o honor divinities more keeping with his heroic image.

Do you hear his blasphemy

agaist the pice ofthe blessed

{he god of gatas

and

rings

(ba. 374-8)

‘A great deal of wine was drunk on this occasion and, in the midst of the
futeainments, some verses were recited that satiized the Macedonian officers
Involved inthe dct atthe had of Spitamenes duving the preceding Yea.
Considering the audience, tis highly unlikely that any poet would have shed
the reprisal of thos in atendance without fist receiving royal approval fr such
‘a weading, It may well be tht within the king's emourage tad become
Commonplace to assign culpability forthe defeat wo the commanders involved
thus absolvng the king of responsibility" These verses might also have been
‘ype of ebcasal ofthe afica policy hat was about wo Be adopted i pad
the setback. Nevertheless, a number of Macedonian guest were embarassed
andoffended by what was std in the presence of Persians, abd voiced their
fnger tothe singer, “but Alexander and those siting near him listened with
‘bviews pleasure and tld the mano continue” (P8039),

"This ie he poine at which Cleite made his presence known, He was an
Jmpertat figure, and his family enjoyed clase es with the royal fay. Lance
his aise, had been Alexander's wel-nurse, andthe king, we ate tld thought of
eras mother."

{had set you on my knees and cut ite pices fom the meat

and given you all ou wished

fd eld the wine for you

‘Ad many times you soaked she shi that was on my’ body

‘wih wie you would pi up

inthe


Page 151, Instance 0, Class: Text
of
your
tildhood
UL 9.488-91)
‘Two of Lance's sons had already given their ives during the expedition, and a
‘id Son, Protas, was an office and drinking companion of the king. Cletus
‘had ed the Royal Squadion af the Companion Cavalry under Philip as under
‘Alexander ant may be recalled, was appoints co-commander ofthe entire
‘wigade after the Pils aa
‘Probably Alexander's senior by twenty or so yeas, Cletus had saved the
king's ie a the Graious and was more fond of telling the sory than his
commanding officer was of Bearing it His elevea-hou invitation to the
‘Symposium implies that Ces was not regula peesent at these ffi and his
‘cet appointment ax strap of Baca” may have been made with the ation
fof removing an uninhibited an independent veice from cour. Furthermore. 2+
‘an old-guad Macedonian he may’ have boon les than gratified by a promotion
that separated him from his convades and left him atvong hordes of faceless
‘tartans
Drunk and angry, Cletus exclaimed that it was no sight for Macedonians to
‘inulin the presence of babarans and enemies even they had met with
‘misfortune, for they were beter men than hose who were laughing at thers” (P
50.9 Aletander,cqully drunk, reacted by charging Wat "if Clits Was ying
‘to disguise covandie as misforune, he must be pleading his on case” (P30
1O)- Clits jumped up and shouted "Yes, was ny cowardice tha saved our
fe, you who call youself the son ofthe gos, when you were taming yout back
to Spitwidates” shoal. And ti the blood of thee Macedonians and their
‘wounds which have mae you so rest hat you disown your father Philip and
claim tobe the son of Amma!” (P8011).
‘They ae as
whe eal you
Inst of Zeus
since you fall
fae show
inwuth
ofthe others
‘who were begoten
or
Zee
UL 5635-2)
Alexander was outraged and screamed, "You scum. do you think that you can


Page 152, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘not pay fori” (PSI.1) Cleitus responded that he, like other Macedonians, was
lead paying forthe king's efforts I's the dead ones who are happy because
‘ey never lived to see Macedonians being eaten with Median rds o begging
the Persians fran audience with our own king” (P51.

“Alexanders chs jump to hei feet ata berated Clits, while some older
‘men ted to calm both of them, The king then tuned to some Greek couriers
fn in a barely audible voice asked thers if Greeks did nt lok like dem gods
and Macedonians lie wild animals when they were in mixed company. Cletus
‘who could not hear the remark, continued hi atack by challenging the king "00
speak out whatever he wished to sy in font ofthe compan or else not invite 1
1s tule feetorn men who spoke thir minds: it would be beter or bis 1
spond his ime among barbians and slaves, who would prostate themselves
‘before his white tunic and his Persian girdle" 1.5).

‘Alexander lst consol of imelf abd dew an apple a Cleius tht bit the
‘outspoken courtier. He ten fanialy searched for is dagger which ene ofthe
‘Royal Bodyguards hd hidden (apparent to proc the king fom himself while
he was aking) Although acrond attempted to pacly him, “Alexander leaped
to his fot and shouted out inthe Macedonian tongue fr his bodyguard totum
‘out signal that ths was an eteme emergency ten e ocdeted his wunpeter
{o sound the slam, and because the man ws unwiling to obey, he tuck ion
‘wih his fist Afterwards the tumpter was highly’ praised for his conduct
‘cause twas chiefly thanks to hin thi the who camp was not thrown into &
turmoil” (PS16-)

‘Cleius was ushered out ofthe tent, but managed to retumto taunt Alexander
with line from Euripides’ Andromache: "Alas, what evil customs ign it
Greece” (683). Euripides’ plays were favorites of Alexande's and a the pay
Featued an ancestor of his fhoer's (Andromache), sis cei thatthe king
[ew the ines of Peleus that followed, which proclaim ia pity that only ane
‘an wielding 4 sword among ten thousand eters seceived the credit for 8
victory on the batlefield Alexander wretched a spear from one of bis
‘bodyguards and Kile Cletus on the spot. He sobered up immediatly and
sceing “his ends standing around him speechless, he snatched the weapon out
ofthe dead boy and would have planged it st his own throat i the guards bad
‘ot fovstaled him by seizing bis hands and carving him by force ino his
chamber" (PSLID,

‘When you raze

‘he horror you have done

you shal sffer

‘embly

(Ba. 1259-60)
Remosseful over the tage consequences of his ungoverable anger, and
‘obubly mindful ofthe striking similarity between his own drunken behavior
‘Probably mindful of the striking similarity between his own drunken behavior


Page 153, Instance 0, Class: Text
“up in the royal tent for three days and continued sobbing in isolation until
concerned parties forced their way to his apartments.” In an attempt 19
‘Console the king. Avstander remind him about the dream in Which Clits bad
Sppearsd dresed in black. He assured Alexander that even he was powerless
‘over events ordained by fate This provided some solace. Callsthenes,
‘Alexander's hstoran, also made an attempt at consolation by offering
‘conventional sympathies and etsurances "twas the Msyneratc approach of
“Anaxatchus the plilosope however, that elicited an effective response. The
plilosopher exelaimed
Here is this Alexander whom the whole world now looks t0 for an
example and he is ying on the floor Weeping ike 2 slave eid of he
Taw and of what men wil sy of him. And yet all th ime it shouldbe be
‘who presents the a and sts up dhe eiteion of ance. Why else did be
congut, unless it Was to govern and command? I Was cern Hot 10
‘How binself to submit like salve tothe folsh opinions of aber. Do
{yu not know that Zeus as Justice and Law seated by his ide to prove that
{everything ati done by the ruler ofthe Word i afl and jas
(525-6)
“The shock resulting from this approwch, coupled with the sedutvenes of the
analogy. was powerful enough 10 end Alexander's tion with the aly
Homeric sluson fora bev incutng such shameful distepate: suicide. This
couse had ‘been taken by Ajax, another of Alexander's mythological
Sncestos." The plosophe's prescription ot only provided welie! fom the
‘ult tha Alexandr was experiencing, but also offered a eationae for eaiming
Alivine right shouldbe be confonted wit ther unpalatable elitist this pe
inthe future. This principle eo vided a panacea fr te anxiety tht Alexander felt
‘when is mistakes eveaed is awed nature. is aot surpising that it beled
‘make Alewander “in many ways moce proud and autocratic than before” (P32
“


Page 154, Instance 0, Class: Text
favorably to the Dioseuri and Heracles During the facas Awian claims that
CCleius “spoke up in favour of Philip's achievement, making litle of Alexander
and his" (486) Asian's version also records that after the deed, Alexaber
“Lepr again and again calling himself the murderer of his nds efsed rly
llfood or dink for tee das, and neglected all ether bodily needs" (49.4),

Arian blames Cletus for what happened and pis Alexander "Yor his
risfortun, since be then showed hits the slave of two vies, by othr of
‘which is it fiting for a man of sense to be overcome, anely. anger and
drunkenness” (49.1). Nevertheless, the ancien historian commends his bro
‘because “he admited that he had etd, a a man may" (4.6),

But had he? Arian cleuly indicates thatthe offal explanation pointed to
Dionysus athe culpit."" Alexanders fue to pay tribute tothe god on the
appoiniod day, everyone was told. was the only explanation Tor this
incomprehensible tr of events. The murder of Cletus was the work of angry
aod

et were you

[would offer him a strife

sot rage and ick

spas necessity

eiying

aod

(Ba. 704-5)
‘Awian candidly masks that the king compensated for his indiscretion by
offering a belated “Sacifice to Dionysus, sine it was nt uncongenial to bin
thatthe disaster should be ffeted to divine wrath ater than to his own evil
ature” (4.95).

Dionysus

tas power

(a, 1087-8)
‘Alexander was still guiidden, and his actions hinted at self destuction. The
King's soldiers were fearful of finding themselves Iadeless atthe cah's end
and surrounded by hostile forces. His woops declared Cleius gully’ of weston,
nd therefore solely responsible for the enite ual afar Alexander was
‘hereby slieved of any culpability inthe matter. The posthumous coavicton of
(Ceius would odiarily have roid that his corpse be left uninaried, but the
‘ing insisted om proper burial sites, Alexander emerged asthe victim ofthe man
‘oad murdered,


Page 154, Instance 3, Class: Text
favorably co the Dioscuri and Heracles. During the fracas Arran claims that
CCleius “spoke up in favour of Philip's achievement, making litle of Alexander
land his” (44.6) Arian's version slao records that afer the deed, Alexandet
“Lepr again and again calling himself the murderer of his nds efsed rly
llfood or dink for tee das, and neglected all ether bodily needs" (49.4),

Arian blames Cletus for what happened and pis Alexander "Yor his
risfortun, since be then showed hits the slave of two vies, by othr of
‘which is it fiting for a man of sense to be overcome, anely. anger and
drunkenness” (49.1). Nevertheless, the ancien historian commends his bro
‘because “he admited that he had etd, a a man may" (4.6),

But had he? Arian cleuly indicates thatthe offal explanation pointed to
Dionysus as he culpit!™ Alexander's fur wo pay bute to the god onthe
appoiniod day, everyone was told. was the only explanation Tor this
incomprehensible tr of events. The murder of Cletus was the work of angry
‘ged.


Page 155, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander hed ridicgled his fether's deunken comportment, Aleexader woe then
18, an impeccable physical specimen and an ace of sos, who oud Plip's
erneanor appalling. Nine yeas Ler, under striking similar circumstances, his
‘own Behavior proved tobe vitally indistingushable fom that of his ater

"Alexander's anger is conspicuous in this episode, The Kings tot, Aristo,
‘was curious aout this emotion andthe ctcumstances under which it becomes
activated in poople. He may provide some help in understanding his pupil's
‘ohavioe We gt angry. e ays at

those who speak ill f us, and show contempt for ws, in connexion with the

things we ourelves most care abou hus those wo are eager to win Tue
a8 philesophers get angry with these who show contempt for dei

‘hibeopy and so on im otereaser We fel particulary angry on this

fccount if we suspect that we ate infact, ofthat people think we a,

Tacking completly orto any effective extet ia the qualities in question.

Far when wea convinced tat we excel in the quite for which we ate

ere at, we can ignore the ering."
In his fatal confromtion withthe king, Cletus was unfortunate enough 10
“entity publicly areas in which Alexander was les than secure the merry of
‘is father: his “vine paternity the opinions of ethers: his military judgment
‘is courage: his orientation; and his Inceasngly visible megalomaniac
steak

all

‘Which makes a man grow angry

forall is reat mind

‘hat gl of anger

that sar ie smoke

inside of tans Beart

and becomes thing

‘Sweeter to him by far

han

the

sipping

ob


Page 156, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘There was, as always, the business of war. Spitamenes showed himself to be
an ste general, who plagued Alexander with his guerilla tactics. Like
‘Alexander he seemed to have the ability t appear out of nosbete and then
‘atch se quickly ashe had come. This heat requited concenteation. Alexander
{organiza his cavalry inte five unite which could operate independ. He
chose to lead one himself, and seloced the following individuals to be the
‘ommander ofthe other four unis: the steadfast Hephseston, who fad shared
‘command with Cletus Ptolemy who had been exiled by Philip and appointed as
{Royal Bodyguard inthe wake of the Pilots affair Periccas, who had not
‘aly bejped to pursue and kil Pills assassin, but had ls played an important
{ole inthe downfall f Phiotas: and Caonus, who was aso uastumentl in this
stair!”

“Alexander decd Hephaestion to herd the natives andl available supplies
Imo cites in Sogdiana,seing yp winter quarters at Nautaca. Spitamenes, who
‘oon became dexpeatly short of rent ws forced t sk open confit with
the Macedonians. Afersufering a erushing defeat, Spitamenes led ito the
Wwildemess with ie Massageac, 4 ould Scythian wibe. When the tibesmen
Teared tht Alexander himseif was appcoaching they decapitated Spitamenes
sn ent is Bed othe Macedonian King"

Te was ia the ealy sping of 327, ith lage pats of Sogdana sil pin arms
‘hat the 27-year-old King took his fist wife!"= Her father Oxyates Was
‘captured Bactrian baron who had been tested well by Alexander, His daughter
‘Rovane ("Lite Sua) reputed to be one of the most beautiul young women i
‘Asia, became Aletande’scapve. Plutarch tellus, ina manner reminiscent of
‘is description ofthe fst meting between Philip and Olympia. of thi Tove at
Fast sight" Thy Wete Soom maid inthe presence of Oxyartes, who became 3
staunch suppwter and invaluable aly of his ne son-in-law Inthe Macedonian
(and Kanan) tation, Alexander and Roxane were united though the joint
slicing of loaf of bead Tis was accomplished I was sud, Uke the opening
‘ofthe Gordian knot—with a sword. The two retuned marred unl the king's
‘deat, flee which Roxane gave bit toa hoy heeled Alexander

te who tracks

some boundless

Superhuman dean

may lose

his harvest

ete

and

(a. 398-9)
‘Love aside. this match, like those of Philip, had obvious practical advantages.


Page 157, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander odered Peuestas, a Companion who dd speak Roxane’ language,
to recruit and tain 3,000 native youths to leam the Greek language and the
Macedonian style of fighting. Aleander later called these boys Epigon!
Successor"), They were hovougly waied ove period of several years and
‘made a spectacular ddbutat Sus in 324 In one sense they served as hostages,
‘but they also testified oa vealization on the kings pat that he would soen need
addtional manpower if he wore to rea, Tet alone expand, an empire 2007
Spring over two continents. Hehad lead begun osnompoate Asttcs n>
ich of his squadrons, which was an alaming development t some of his
‘Macedonian veterans
PROSKYNESIS

Blending the ole of a Macedonian king with hat of 4 Pesian monarch was a
formidable sk, even for someone, with Alexanders polieal acumen,
‘Maintaining separate courts and employing separate ings for business conducted
in each capacity seemed novela fist, but the king knew that t would become
‘ocessaty to bring unifomity to these procedures. I'some meas of nts peation
could he accomplished amoog th noblemen at cout, he reasoned, it might help
{oTailiate the govemance of both factions.

‘Alexander elected use the symposium a a vehicle tough which he could
adres the dlcomforing situation at court” There was 4 mised audience of
‘Macedonians, Greeks, ad Persians, and each group had its own stuals and
tation. Alexanders soliton seems to have involved ritualistic homage a it
‘was performed by subjects a the peseace ofthe Pssan king. This practice the
Greeks called protynests' Iwhad been inaugurted by Cyrus the Great and
‘had come to be expected of the Great King’s subject, Alexander wanted 10
‘etn ths ritual among the Persians and to sealine protocol be inende 1
‘have the custom adopted by his Greek and Macedonian courtiers s wll

"There Was a fubdameatal problem, however. Inthe Grcekspeaking world
beisance (Which could involve prostaion) was seserved exclusively for
Fhonving the gods, and peostation implied Worship. Thus, among Greeks and


Page 157, Instance 3, Class: Text
however, it seems unlikely that Alexander went ino this mariage with the same
Hbiinal ust his fatber would have had. Neither th Bide no he soon sees
to have spoken the he’s language. Infact, this may have been the most
emanding ofthe many saciflees Aleander haw make ia the iret of his

sod

r

had to endure

‘moral mariage

ML 1833)
Alexander odered Peuestas, a Companion who dd speak Roxane’ language,
{o recut and ain 30,000 native youths to Team the Greck language and the
Macedonian style of fighting. Aleander later called these boys Epigon!
Successor"), They were hovougly waied ove period of several years and
‘made a spectacular ddbutat Sus in 324 In one sense they served as hostages,
‘but they also testified oa vealization on the kings pat that he would soen need
addtional manpower if he wore to rea, Tet alone expand, an empire 2007
Spring over two continents. Hehad lead begun osnompoate Asttcs n>
ich of his squadrons, which was an alaming development t some of his
‘Macedonian veterans
PROSKYNESIS

Blending the ole of a Macedonian king with hat of 4 Pesian monarch was a
fowmidable sk, even for someone. with Alexander's politcal acumen,
‘Maintaining separate courts and employing separate ings for business conducted
“in cuch capacity scctned havel at frat, bet the kang kacw thi at would become


Page 158, Instance 0, Class: Text
ana arr erm ras, er nei an

‘worshipped their king asa god. Alexander realized that this was a sensitive and
potently divisive sue, and Hat he would have o teat the mater wih cae It
‘was decided to introduce prostynesis onan experimental basis by encouraging &
elect few Grecks snd Macedonians tose the example." Hephaestion staged
the scene and coached the prtiipans in tsi roles. He undoubtedly emphasized
to thm the practical advantages of this ritual tothe King, and explained tha it
‘was not tal what the untutored believed it to be. Those involved were expected
{o accept a cup of wine fom the king, offer a Ubution at the altar, perfor
proshyesisbefove Alexander and then receive @Kss fom him. Inthe Persian
{tadion, the royal kiss was a socal distinction esrved fr kines of the Great
King, but eve it was employed wo signify an equality of sors and compensate
Forte serviity ofthe gesture hat preceded it

Everything went according t0 plan until Callsthenes (later reported by
Hephacstion 1 have agteed to this procedure in advance)" omited the
proskynesis in bis approach. This was noticed by Demetius, one of the
Companions. Alzada. who was conversing with Hephaston atthe tins
‘efised to kiss Callthnes when informed of the omission, Callishenes wa
{embarassed by the creumstances, but made no effort tac his steps and
Include obesance in his routine, Instead, be anounced in voice loud enough to
‘be heard by everyone present "Very well then, Isl go away the pooter by
Kiss? 56)"

Further difficulties followed on theses ofthis display. I s00n became clear
‘hata numberof Macedonians were unlikely o engage willing ia thi situa. To
Noid polarization, perhaps even open defiance at cour, Aleandet Was forced 19
shandon termorarly the ides of persuading Europeans to perform proskynesis
‘The experiment had turned ino an embarasment and the king. although
incensed, could do litle but call a halt

te

Peleus

UL 188)
‘CALLISTHENES


Page 159, Instance 0, Class: Text
publi. The historians sense of propriety had hoon affected, and it peompled
Callsthenes to actin manner tat tured him into an opponent in the king's
boty
‘Aso is sid to have remarked that his cousin’ son was an sccomplisied
speaker but devoid of commonsense. Thies cern an accurate observation
if we eecall the comment attibuted to Calsthenes that i was though his
eseription of Alexanders exploits thatthe King shared in divinity, ad not
‘trough Olympia” fanciful tale abou ber son's conception,
you wl give glory to me
and
youre
Hades
UL 1Lats)
Callithnes it was believed, had joined the expedition to ensue that Oly
fis native cy, would be restored, in the same fashion as Philip had aged
‘estore Stagta for Aristo. Pompous and antisocial the antiquarian reused
ianr ination and remained alot at the gatherings he did atend He may
‘have teen uncomfortable at Macedonian symposia whete unmixed wine Wa
consumed in epic proportions and a colloquium could develo into 4 drunken
Callsthenes’ pedantry and paroeialim seem to have wor thin with he king
by this time. The historian probably shued Arse’ view of the barbarian as 8
subhuman species, Which shouldbe used by Greok ike plants nd animals" He
nay ako ave disapproved of Alexanders iteration of barbarian Woops into
the anny bee les than estate over the king's mariage to Roxane abd begun,
‘sthape, to experience pangs of conscience over his foe in being to cea
{ough his writing) a climate of blasphemous praise fr the King at cour AR
‘merging theme t symposia had become «comparison of Alexander's expiats
‘wih thove of Heracles and Dionysus
Youhave done me wrong
Tam you
hee again
(ba. 388-9)
Despite the gruesome example of Cis, Callisthenes had chosen to draw the
line at proses, and the historians heroics eamed adninion and suppor
fom ualiely quae. Macedonians felt jos as offended as Calisthenes a the
prospect of demeaning themselves by obelsance, and looked toward this
Intellectual sa symbol of their own resistance. For the momen, Callishene,
‘is own astonishment, actully ejoyed some populaty. To Aletandr,howevet


Page 160, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘he had become an obstructionist responsible for the abandonment of a royal
jee of rial importance,
By pod
Pikmake
him pay
(ba 345-6)
Alexander could nt desl with Calistenes in the same fashion as be had dealt
‘with Ceius. but dere were oer weapons in the King's arsenal. AL ope ofthe
‘Symposia Cilistones was encouraged to speak on the vistues of Macedonians
He was so eloquent in discussing this subject that those present appa bit
and threw gauads™” At this point the King cited toodified passage fom the
‘Bacce in which Euripides said, “Give wise man ap boest bie wo plead and
Is eloquence sno cemarkable achievement” (Bu. 266-7) Hethen wea 00 19
challenge Callisthnes to exhibit his peowess by being equally persuasive in his
‘tilts of Macedonians. This exerise would also enable the Macedonia
‘dent their own shortcomings and inpove upon them, the king aseted,
Speak ely
(ba.62)
Callisthenes fell ino the ap and expounded upon hose defects conspicuous in
‘Macedonians. He even noted that Philips vise to power was made possible
Atvough the flue of the Greoks to cooperate with one anther, and quoted &
‘over to underscore his point. “Oace civil suife has begun. even scounkels
‘ay ind themseves honoured” (P53). The Macedonians wore outraged at his
accusations. The Ling, now in command ofthe situation, declared that instead of
‘emnstaing his eloquence, Callstenes had revealed his animosity toward
‘Macedonians
1
detest
that man
‘who
Fides one hing
inthe depths of bis heat
and speaks for
nother
WL9312-13)
By luring Callithenes ino this further display of is oratrical skills, Alexander
thal (ina manner suggestive of Philip) maripulsted the historian into
‘elinguishing his own support. The result was loss of the ephemeral suppoet that


Page 161, Instance 0, Class: Text
MAW Ison
their

end

ddisster

(a. 386-8)
‘THE PAGES! CONSPIRACY (327 BC)
During the late spring of 327 Callshenes was sil tutoring Macedonian Royal
Pages on the expeition, At that ine, in Baca one of his most eau pupils
‘came involve in an incident that culminated inanaher plot on Alexander's
life. The student was Hermolas, a spirited young man who, on one occasion, et
‘is natural entity carry im beyond accepale Limits

"The pages as uation dicated, wee aenting the king on a boar hunt when
Hermolaas pre-empted the King's st sot and sew the Dor him sl Turous
‘Alexander had Herolais flogged inthe presence of the oer pages and
<epaved the hoy ofthe use of his hose. This penaly may have becn customary
for such an offense, butt was a source of uterhuniliation to Hermolas. The
‘young man brooded over what he considered toe excesive punishment and
{evolved oasassinate the king.

"The extreme reaction of Hemost the discipline impose is ess suprising
than the fact that he wa able to convince atleast fve and pethaps as many’ as
‘ht eter Reyal Pages to join in the conspiracy. Alexander was sil relatively
young. at 28, superbly courageous, incompaable asa military” leader
Fissonately concerned about the heh and wellie of his Woops, and. in
eter uniquely successful individual One might presume that he would be
the iol of young Macedonians in thir middle tole teenage years who were
teuning tobe warts henslves, Yet tis obvious that these nable youths, ke
thse involved in the Philos afi, were not mesmerized by thir kin.

‘Curiously tbe pages involved inthe conspiracy of 327 scem to have had more
{in common with oldgusrd Macedonians like Cletus than with the rising young
‘asin the ryal entourage, suchas Hepestion and Pedicas. As we sl es,
their resentment centered on the wansformation of the Macedonian kingship
under Alexander. They may hive adopted this alti fom their father. who,
afer the slaying of Cletus, would only dae to utr such thoughts within the
confines ofthe family esl. Is also possible ht these Young men may have
Stvved from Macedonia after the manifest changes tn the kiship made by
“Alexander were lead evident and they neither undestod not ied What they
Sa Pages who had joined the hast during an eae peviod would have ad ime
to adjust more readily othe tansfonmations on a day-to-day basis, jus their


Page 162, Instance 0, Class: Text
fathers hal dove. More recent arivals” may have interpreted what they saw a
the justification for noble bu eth suicidal at.

“Tyranicde was peveived a» Viauous deed in the ancient Greck world
Harmodius and Avsiogeitn, fr example, the Aonian assassins of Hippatchus
‘were viewed as heroes by their ello cz" Infact, their daed tay hav
‘ben lauded by Calistenes in his ttrials on the expedition, Even i that were
so, however, ts unlikely hat the historian ever imapined tat the Young me
‘who istened tim might choose to replicate the at themselves,

‘Methodial planing was necessuy. The yous waited thity-1Wo days unt
‘trough assignment sitching all of the pages involved inthe conspiracy were
‘on duty guarding the royal bodchamber. The intention was o mde he King i
his sleep, but Tyche irvened. Aistobulstlls us that Alexander, on bis Way
fiom a symposium wo his sleeping quarts, was interepted by aa elder woman
‘who had ecome important tothe king daring tis particular peviod in his ite.*
‘She was a Syrian proptes, who wa nly pert to tave with the court
8 an amusing oddity, but tured outa east in Alexander's ejes, to possess
emuskable ability to predict the futur. Alexander was s0inpresel by this
‘Woman (another “surzogate mesher" of srs) that he “pave her access 1 his
‘etson day and night snd abe now oflen whe over inn as he lee” (A413.
5.

‘We are told that on the night agieed upon by the pages forthe assassination,
the prophets was vse by a divine spn. She accosted Alexander and begged
‘him to go back to the inking pasty apd remain there. Alexander thought her
advice “divine” and retumed to the symposium. Whether either this version,
‘which i favored by Aan, or anoter he cites, which describes Alexander a
“dioking unpeompted tll daybeak" (4.13.5, 6 authentic, he pois is that the
‘King id ot returh to the rfal apartments ual dawn, wen the conspiatos
replacements atived 19 asume thet watch, Alexander actully tipped the
‘paring pages and commended them fr staying past thei watch" The youns
‘lode were probably in tte of confusion, and praying for some miracle that
‘Would permitthem to implement the plan Nohing miraculous occured. however
nd the asasinaton ha o be rescheduled

"Within hours ths delay had Ted toa security Lek in the conspirator’ cans,
and Polemy was told ofthe enterprise. Unlike Pilots, whose proceasination
Jpoved faa, Ptolemy immediately (although with some diffieuly) roused
‘Alexander fom his drunken sleep and informed him of the plot. The king
edeed the arest and shackling of ll tose implicated, and then resumed his
tempt to sleep off the effects of his drinking

‘On the following day. Alexander, having composed himsel, summoned
general asembly toy the would-be assassin. During the tial Alexander was,
{nce again. nteasly curious a 0 why these young mea were delemied 10 ake
Is life. Hermolaus spoke on behalf ofthe pages. Amin informs us of one
‘version that utributes the following words to Hermolaus:'*


Page 163, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘no free man could longer endure Alexander's arrogance...the unjust end of

Phileas, and the still more illegal death of Pannen and of the ehers Who

pevished at hat tie, the drunken murder of Cius, the Median des, he

plan not yet abandoned to intoduce obsisance, and Alexanders drinking

fin leping habits; i was ll hs he would ear no longer abd sought 10

berate himself and the other Macedonians.

a2
Carus says that hey were then tumed ver to the units 0 which they had been
allached and were ore to death by them." Each ui seen atlempted 1
‘utd the othe inthe intensity ofthe pin init as proof of thrown loyalty
tothe King

‘The association hetwsen Hermolaus and Callishenes afforded Alexande an
‘opporuniy to implicate the historian inthe conspiracy, and thereby remove his
contaminating influence fom court When and how his oceumed is
‘roblematic Poly says that Callshenes was forured and banged whe the
conspiracy came o light wile Aitobuls munis tat be was fewered and
{ured around withthe army unt he died of some lacs.

‘Chars. the cout chambesain, claimed that Callsthenes was arsted and
‘imprisoned wih the intention of eventually having him Wied by the counell
(synedrion) of the Cocathian League in Aristotle's presence." Since
CCllsthenes was 4 notable historian and a Kinsman of Arise ths may have
‘en the most prident solution tothe problem. Ie would techically relive
‘Alexander of any esponsibility forthe man’s death. Cares eepeted that
‘sted and lisevidden Callshenes died in capi seven months afer his
atest Thus, the proposed wal never materialized

‘With the contemporary eyewitnesses offering conflicting accounts of
Callthenes’ demise no frm conclusion con be drawn, Nonetelss, there i ile
doubt concerning the irony’ of his fae. Cllisthenes Became a victim ofthe man
‘whove vite he extolled.

to pea the wonds

ot ftesdom

tefore

the

‘yeant

ba. 775-6)
NYSA AND AORNUS (327 BC)
hur ols ws hat early one morning ia the summer of 327, when Alexander
‘was about o invade “nd” he set iret is own baggage wagons and those of


Page 164, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘order. vast majority ofthe soldiers cheered, use hattle-ry, shared military
ssettas with thei comrades, and even assisted inte disposal of euperuous
Stems. He furter informs us that “Alexander was filed wit enthusiast a their
pst and his hopes rose wo thei highest pitch” (372). Heads, however, that by
{his tie the King "was already feared by his men for bis releness seventy i
‘Punishing any dereliction of duty” (573.

‘When Aleander finally descended ini the Kabul Valley to embark on this
‘ext campaign be ha ode with significant manpower shortage. His ghting
foyce had been substantially depcied over the yeas by combat ad ies.
‘Touble in Baca and Sopdina had reise im to leave 10.000 fat and
3.500 cavalry (pebably forthe most pat. metcenaies) in those aca, which
Further complicated his situation, Although some authorities cite a figure of 120,
(0 men being led into “India” by Aleander, this count (paps inclusive of
‘Asiatic woops and the various and sundey camp followers who accompanied
im) peat inflated Despite periodic replacements fom Macedonis and the
supplementation of his forces by Hanian Woops te king probably Began this
‘invasion with some 35,000 European fighing mena figure which was
almost identical to the number of solits (cited by Avian 1.113) who bad
‘rosse the Hellespont with him sven years before

FFarbehind me lie those glden-sivered lands

‘Ty and Phrygia where my journeying began

ba 18)

‘At the tne e had crosed into Asia Alexander bd known litle abou “Indi”
‘The Greek historian Herodotus, Ctsis, a Greck physician a the Persian cou,
and Sela a Geeck inthe service of Darius 1 who had sailed down the ads
‘River and p wo the Gulf of Suez, ha ll wsten about. and Alexander was
‘0 doubt falar with what they had reported. This information, however. Was
at bes fagmentay and speculative. Aristotle, for example, thought hat Ocean. 2
‘iver (and deity) which was believed wo encile the earth, could be sen fro the
‘summit ofthe Hind Kash, bt Alexander knew by 327 tat this was nonsense
‘Toseme India began actos the Hindy Kash in moder Pakistan, while w others
it was the tetitory east of the Indus Rivet. Unaware of the length of the great
Subcontinent and the width of the Ganges plain, Aletander may have believed at
‘he outset that Ocean was within stoking distance ofthe easter bank of the
Indus." One of his goals, most certainly, would ave Bee inclusion among the
_thical figures who were sid to have reached it

evils India ha become the Dackdop forthe mythological adventures of
some of the more nent Hellen dete, Heaces and Dionysis wee sid 10
Ihave wandered bout thee, and Arias account, which comes clowst to the
‘ficial version ofthe expedition, places special emphasis on the past presence
fof these meandering divinities in his discussion ofthe Indian campaign.
Dionysus it was claimed, ed his throng 1 India, and snuoduced the Vine and
‘ther aspects of cilization*” Heracles was believed to have passed that way


Page 164, Instance 3, Class: Text
we. A vast majocity ofthe sors cheered ised a butler. shared military
ssettas with thei comrades, and even assisted inte disposal of euperuous
Stems. He furter informs us that “Alexander was filed wit enthusiast a their
pst and his hopes rose wo thei highest pitch” (372). Heads, however, that by
{his tie the King "was already feared by his men for bis releness seventy i
‘Punishing any dereliction of duty” (573.

‘When Aleander finally descended ini the Kabul Valley to embark on this
‘ext campaign be ha ode with significant manpower shortage. His ghting
foyce had been substantially depcied over the yeas by combat ad ies.
‘Touble in Baca and Sopdina had reise im to leave 10.000 fat and
3.500 cavalry (pebably forthe most pat. metcenaies) in those aca, which
Further complicated his situation, Although some authorities cite a figure of 120,
(0 men being led into “India” by Aleander, this count (paps inclusive of
‘Asiatic woops and the various and sundey camp followers who accompanied
im) peat inflated Despite periodic replacements fom Macedonis and the
supplementation of his forces by Hanian Woops te king probably Began this
‘invasion with some 35,000 European fighing mena figure which was
almost identical to the number of solits (cited by Avian 1.113) who bad
‘rosse the Hellespont with him sven years before

FFarbehind me lie those glden-sivered lands

Tul ail Pheveia when i soctacelae bewat


Page 165, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alkmene bore me «son

Herakes the stong-hearted

‘while Semele's so

was Dionysos

the pleasure

of

ols

143245)

(Caspeted with exotic Nora and swarmed over by marvelous fauna, “India” was
inhabited by an exotic race “darker-skinned than all oer men except the
Ehiopians” (A'S. This alluring land isued a Suen call oa man of such
Jnvepessbl euviosty. Alexander was to discover tat his was one of those rare
Instances when his experience matched is imagination. Teeming aves.
crocodiles, warir elephants, fakes. and naked philosophers avaited him. But
India also boused some ofthe toughest fighing mien be was ever to face. and
‘unscon dangers against which genius and perseverance poved to be a no avail

‘Pessiansfluence inthe Puja feaced back to the igh of Cyrus the Geet
and Darius I, who had conquered the Persian satapy of Hindu (modem Sind)
‘The Achucmnonids had lost much of thee Indian tetry ding the intervening
pevod, but the presence at Gaugamela of uoops fom Gandhara an aa just
South ofthe Hindu Kush, gives evidence of Persian suzeeanty in Dat region i
S31. Aleanders conquest of “India” (Geographically. for the most pat
‘oviemporary Pakistan) may. ia par, be seen as a teasseton of the authoity
enjoyed tere by his Persian predceessos.

"As saon a Alexander's claim to the Persian kingship became earest, he was
sought ou by Indian chieftains who were willing o honor bm as the Great King
Jn exchange fr bis suppor gains heir local enemies. After crossing te Hind
Kush, Alexander summoaed Tasiles (Omphis) of Tala and all rjbs west of
{he Tadus to submit to him and w offer more detailed infomation about what ly
seed. Tales bought an impressive variety of gifs, including twenty-five wat
lephant, which Wete of pacar interest to Alexander Hephaeston and
Perdiceas were ordered o march aead tothe Ins with hl of Alexander's any
antl to acept he sutener ofc ake by soem, every town in hit path

“The king undertook the somewhat more demanding ask of eubuing the bes
‘of Bajaur and Swat noth ofthe Cophen (Kabul) River. In Swat the king atacked
‘Massga™ the greatest city inthe pion, whose defense had been bolstered by
the hifng of 7.000 Indian mercenaries. Outside the Walls Alexander executed
‘succesful feigned rte similar o that of Pip at Chaerone, bu most of his
‘nveratcs were abet ie inside the walls ofthe ety Before is countertack.
In addition this manpower losses and personal embarassment, Alexander Was
‘wounded although no severely) during the slege when his bide over a breach


Page 166, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘in the wall collapsed. The Indians, however, were severely battered inthe three
ila yams fom cpa

‘Alexander ha boped to epoy the Indian mcenares nis fre
cperations, ut they had no wish o gh agaist ther Inds on his bebal
‘Avan says that hey planned to lip away from tr encampment oie the
Siyunderthe cover of drkaes"Tafomedo ths Alexander surrounded the bil
fn which they were encamped and marsaced them all. Diodons snes that
‘Neader ganesh lnlane fe conus Ou wet fit warning
{nd alagheed them. Patch, following the version rected by Diodonn,
‘elie (30, Tam speculates that hs hey “ay ave Bon se oe
Iibke ie prtupa 0 eleve ierpeing and 1 Alexanders owing

lug it ocured before the Masaga afi, he try of Nys 8 read
{he cy of Nya found the King ins esl wearing is arm and belt
tarying a pear and covered wit st ram he ding Ot ay, Aedes 2
ing ofsachrepue in hs mundane estr,hey Felt te ground and ema
Sen This was a good sian. and Alenander was qc Wo et etm at exe
od ten founded by » deity ened by Alexanders cnourae ao the rook
{sa Dionysos Acaphis begged Alexander oleae the ey of Nya ashe Bad
Inca ay, which i eo grow anywhere eee nda and was ell Donji:
Mut poo hat ey ha ined Ben feuded by the
the wandering of Dionysus he ao wanted Ny oe founded by Dionysia
‘hich ease he had shady reached the pint Dinybie eaced, and wold g0
‘en fate, He luo thought tha the Macsloniane would not rine oi in
{nll further ffs, in emulation of Dion achievements (A'S
‘Aletander grand the request for foedom and independence 4 Nya. but

“his romped the king to inguite why his demand had provoked amusement
Acupis wanted o ow how acy depaved of hundred fas bes eens
Snsead, be uged, and when you ctr, you wil find the same civic onde
Carsaeing tbe cy. Alounder aw wisdom ats logi ad aged io he
‘Acapis’ own son and grandson accompany hn ote campaign

“Aleander way cued with yearning [pts] to see te place where he
‘xysacuns poly displayed ein memoria of ronan” CAS2.5) Th ing
took his Companion Cavalry ad the Royal Squadron ofthe infant to What his
‘officers called Mount Menu aftee Zeus thigh /meros. in which Dionysus was


Page 167, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘hidden before birth to protect him from the wrath of Hera). It was indeed full of
iy, which the Macedonians had not seen fr some time, even inthe regions
‘wheee Dionysus’ other familiar atebut, the vine, was evident, Dionysus also
symbolize all forms of moisture and ivy sew in shady slades whete the eth
‘was cool and mais.

[They eagenty made wreaths oft and crowned themselves there and then,

‘Snging hymts to Dionysus and calling onthe various names of the god

‘Then Alctander saciced thre to Dionysus, and feasted with is

Companions Some have also related (if anyone can Bliove tis story) that

‘many Macedonians of disinction in his “company, afer crowning

themselves with the ivy and invoking the god. were possessed by

Dionysus aed the Dionysia cry, and were tansposed with Bacchi

frenzy.

626)

Alexander could ot tsi the cll 0 a mountin lair ofthe god. Once these he
eebated with his Companions, and led them, no doubt, in Bacchi hyma-
Singing and an enbusiaste rection of Dionysae epitets. Ivy would surely
have been included among the qualities recalled. Like the vine and the serpent,
this saced plant evinced a metamorphic quality. Other Bacchi names Were
‘probably echoing though the Swat highlands at well—rlater of the mind,
healer oF sorow. dispeller of care, provider of joy. mertymaker, lover of
laughter, disturber ofthe soul, mind breaker, bestower of envy, a, dispenser of
ager, nosenake, chaser of sleep slayer of men.”

Tt was profitable for Alexander to find the clams of Acuphis persuasive a this
juncture Afler a. grim petiod of slaughter Dionysiae revelly povided. &
Teptimaterevet info a altered eealty from which is men would emerge wih
sense of renewal. What's move, such royal acceptance of local Toor:
Confirmed the fat that Aleander had duplicated the god's presence in this
vicinity. Though bis own efforts and with the bsp of his toops the king hoped
‘in the near future, to advance beyond the limits reached by Dioayzns."”"


Page 167, Instance 2, Class: Text
Alexander could ot tsi the cll 0 a mountin lair ofthe god. Once these he
eebated with his Companions, and led them, no doubt, in Bacchi hyma-
Singing and an enbusiaste rection of Dionysae epitets. Ivy would surely
have been included among the qualities recalled. Like the vine and the serpent,
this saced plant evinced a metamorphic quality. Other Bacchi names Were
‘probably echoing though the Swat highlands at well—rlater of the mind,
healer oF sorow. dispeller of care, provider of joy. mertymaker, lover of
laughter, disturber ofthe soul, mind breaker, bestower of envy, a, dispenser of
ager, nosenake, chaser of sleep slayer of men.”

Tt was profitable for Alexander to find the clams of Acuphis persuasive a this
juncture Afler a. grim petiod of slaughter Dionysiae revelly povided. &
Teptimaterevet info a altered eealty from which is men would emerge wih
sense of renewal. What's move, such royal acceptance of local Toor:
Confirmed the fat that Aleander had duplicated the god's presence in this
vicinity. Though bis own efforts and with the bsp of his toops the king hoped
{nthe nea faut, to avance beyond the limits feached by Dionysus.”

1

‘ised

ay

sight

higher

things

(a, 1237)
Suetifcing 1 Dionysus at Nysa also offered supplemental expiation for
‘Alexander’ agi indiscretion at Margcanda, and reasuted his troops that the
King didn fact Wowship Dionysus, the mast popult of divinities among


Page 168, Instance 0, Class: Text
yudouther

oreke

You disregard

ny words

a

‘warning

(a. 987)

‘Scholaly controversy still dominates the study of ancient Greck perceptions of
Dionysus in India" The ise ate made more confsing by the fact tha
Alexander's wiumphant march though the Punjab and Sind contibued
‘Significantly co the way in which the god would be remembered in relation 19
‘hat remote lund. Some would make Dionysus! presence there noting but &
postscript to Alexander's invasion I should be recalled however, that Euripides
‘ad already placed Dionysus as far eas as Bact. Alexander had no £eson 19
loubt, especially after observing the unique signature at Ns that he Was
following inthe veiled footsteps of his enigmatic ancestor. As Bosworth has
siggestod, “hore was probably 4 tion that Dionysus bad begun his
‘wumphal progress west fom the Indian Lands."

arypissing one of his sources in a discussion about Dionysus in Indi
‘Ain tells us thatthe deity “taught them [the natives] to reverence various
‘ods, but especialy of couse himself, with lashings of cymbals and beating of
‘rums.so hat even against Alexander the Indians came o bate othe sound of
fymbals aad drums” Und7.8-9). Such implausible tales of Dion) so India
‘woubled Arian. but he was wary of becoming excessively analytical when it
ame to eligi, “For things which ae intel if you consider them a the
basis of probability appear not wholy incredible, when oe adds the divine
cement tthe try" (8.12)

‘Members of Alexander's entourage ad a talent for deiying Grook dis
{nthe guise of alien counterparts, and, cal in 326, this poet played a ole
in the king's assault upon the “rock” of Aorus." The Yock” was 47.000 foe
‘igh mass with precipitous cfs that loomed 5.000 feet above a bead inthe
Indus River The native population sought vefuge fom the invaders inthis
‘mountain eat (Pu-Ser and rumor eteulate, based 3 tle about local
fod, tha Heracles (Krishna) himself had failed in a effort stor the
foness"!"As toon as Aletander beat this, he was seized with longing
Toth] to capture this mountain too, not least because ofthe legend bout
Heracles” (A428,

Uilizng local ineligence, Alexander leaned that the best approach was from
‘Una neuy ridge of eve greater alta. Aler experiencing considerable
lily, he finally suceeded in placing the min body of is oops on the
‘adjacent pak, onl to discover thar was separated from Aoenus By a deep and


Page 169, Instance 0, Class: Text
wide ravine. Not to be denied, Alexander had his men build a causeway across
the eave. Allalong they Were unde Vicious attack rom the Indian defenders.
‘bua son as his skiemshers ad siege engines could be activate, the king Was
able to ward ofthese attacks, and in Hwee days the causeway was completed
‘The astonished Indians asked fra tuce, and the King willingly grated fe In &
‘manner feminisceat of the events at Massaga, however. the hig, when be
Teumed of thei ttenton to escape that night personally Ted charge that et the
Indians at his merey, Alexander's incredible victory at Aoraus made it clea to
the Tocl ibis that twas ue io esis this undauntabe inter,

Against

the unassailable

henune

with ge

obsessed

‘a. 1000-1)
(On the “ook” Alexandr ected alas to the gods. Undoubtedly be held &
spoil dedication to Heracles, whom be had jas outdone, but the highest hones
‘Were served for Athena, a divinity special to oth Heracles and Alexander. The
‘ing had serie to het on the eve of his ance into India. and now, afer 8
succesfl conclusion to the fist phase ofthis campaign, be erected an altar 1
‘Adena Nike on sit tha towered over the Indus River below.

‘On his march tothe bridge that Hephaestion fd erected over the Inds
Alexander learned thats number of ladians in the dst had fad to Abia of
Kashmir and. in tos base had et elephants grazing near the sver. Alexander
‘was intrigued by these animals He ws well aware ht they were Hk to play &
ominent sole i the coalcts ahead. The king added elephant hunts to his
Sat ad, under their dvection he engaged in an elephant hunt that seached
climax when two of the beast thundered off a lif, For Alexander it was an
xhlrating experience. AI thiteen surviving beats were incorporated ito his
fay." and he was ead to alvance into the tettrybeyoad the Inds River
‘which he considered tobe India proper.

Wehave him

He

may be quick

but be cannot

scape us

"Ba. 451-2)


Page 169, Instance 3, Class: Text
wide ravine. Not to be denied, Alexander had his men build a causeway across
the eave. Allalong they Were unde Vicious attack rom the Indian defenders.
‘bua son as his skiemshers ad siege engines could be activate, the king Was
able to ward ofthese attacks, and in Hwee days the causeway was completed
‘The astonished Indians asked fra tuce, and the King willingly grated fe In &
‘manner feminisceat of the events at Massaga, however. the hig, when be
Teamodof thei intention to escape tat night personally Ted charge tat et he
Indians at his merey, Alexander's incredible victory at Aoraus made it clea to
the Tocl ibis that twas ue io esis this undauntabe inter,


Page 170, Instance 0, Class: Text
INTO“INDIA" (326 BC)

During Alexander's day the boundaries of “India” were anoxphous, but othe
‘King te region Was well defined "Ina refered to those lands east of the Inds
[Rivec! Crossing over Hepbueston's bridge at Ohind (Udabhandapua, just
‘om of Attock sn May 326, as therefore a momentous achievement Alexander
old alec and equesvian games, while sasificig wo the gods and seeking
their approval of bs intention. The sacrifices proved favorable, and the King
crossed the sve a dain, “so entering the land a he Indians" (A543).

“Alexander masched comccutively to the Hydaspes (elum), Acesines
(Chenab), Hydeaotes (Ravi, and Hypbasis (Beas) vets in the Puja region of
‘resentaiy nomhcastem Pakistan and norbwestm Indi. His success in this
fren was contingent upon sting one ruth against another, and forcing the
Smissionseiain ofall hers who fesistd hi At Ohind Alexander was
‘resented with exquisite gits from Tasiles, who sought Alexander's support
[Spaist Abisres of Kashi and Porus of Para, his formidable enemies This
‘ume Tales sont the king 200 silver talents, 3,000 bul, and 10,000 sheep for
‘Stfcal purposes In ado, he included 700 Indian cavaly, 30 eleputs,
fand Tania ill the most important city between the Indus andthe Jhelum,
Tying 20 miles notes of moder Rawalpindi”

‘The king advanced tovaad Tail, which had been the capital city of «former
Persian stapy, and was gested on the way by Tasiles. Tas Indian potentte
‘ha ben so lavish in is blanishments that it ade Alexander ll tease, unlit
‘came leu that the man was just as eager to vecive gifts to besow the,
Ptrch relates a dialogue sud to have ken place between the two rues

{1 (Taxes possess more than you am ready to be generous towards

you, and if T have less T shall not refuse any beneis you may off”

‘Alexander was delighted ar dhs tok his hand and sid, Perhaps You think

‘hat after you kind woads and courtesy oar nceting wil as ff watout a

contest No, you shall pot get th Belle of me in dhs way I sal fight With

{you tothe last but ony inthe services 1 offer you, for | wll not have you

Sutdo me in gonerosi.” Alexander received many gifts from hi, Dut


Page 171, Instance 0, Class: Text
etured even move, and finally presented him with a thousand leas in
(oasy
and always
heives gts
1 20298-9)

Some of Alevander’s fiends wore annoyed atthe extavagant tm the king's
spirited competion with Taxi had taken. Ata symposium on the following
‘ight, Meleager, 1 batalion commander who had ‘been drinking. heavily
Sancatcally congratulated the King on discovering in “Todi” a man who was
‘Wont that mich money. Alexandr fesponded by saying tht envious men only
torment themselves, a telot suggestive ofthe king's exchange with Cletus in
‘Matacanda' The mater was let at th Dut Mleaper, as ft as We Khow. as
never promoted above the rank of bation commander

“Tania Was not only a wading center ht ataced merchants from the Ganges
‘Vale, Kashi and Bact, but also a Sato higher earning ia “dia” Has
‘ote hat Alexander hear of a group of ascetics who lived naked jst outside the
city. Onescrtus, the royal belmsman, was sen to inguie about the belies of
{hese men, who were ofeed 1 hy the king's cours as Gymaosophists or
“naked philorophers”” He was also. istuced to peruade thet leader,
Dandams, 10 jin Alexande’s host Onesicius, a student of Diogenes of
‘Sinope the funder af the Cynic schoo of philosophy, was a ata eoice wo be
the envoy. but itis dificult to determine ekactly what anopted on his isso,
Some af the confusion may be waced to Onescius himself who wrote his
‘recollections of the expedition inte form of ahistorical eomance” His tls of
‘he king's encounters with Indian philosophers ar colored by his Cyni waning
land convictions. He is responsible for ctesting inginary didlogues between
‘Alexander and the ascetics, a6 wel s the mantic image of Alexander a6
pllosoper a arms

‘Arian, who follows «source oter than Onesirtus in describing this eis,
tells us hat longing (poviay came over Alexandr to alone of these men of
Incredible endurance 0 his entourage. Dandamis. the oldest of the
GGyrnosophists, “sad he would not oin Alexander nor it any’ of the oters do
Sor in fate ssid to have replied tat he himself was jst as much a Son of
‘Zeus as Alexandet, and that he bad no ase of anything Alexander could give,
Sao he was coateted with what he had: e saw, moccover, that Alexander's
Companions were wandering sbout over al that land and seat no profit, and
that there was no Lint to their many wanderings” (722-8). Aaa’ bad
Jnsoduced his emarks about the kings experiences with Indian ascetics by
‘omenting that “while Alexander was not wholly beyond comprehension of
eter courses, he was fearfully mastered by love of fae" (7.22),

Eewhere. Avian recounts the story that Aletander ence came upon the
Gyrmnosophias in an open tieadow where they were engaged in disputations


Page 172, Instance 0, Class: Text
Upon seeing the king and his army, they began to stomp the ground with thei
feet Alexander asked what was meant by this display and was tol, “King
‘Alexander, each man possesses no moe ofthis earth than he pach We stand on
yet you, hough a man like oer men, except of couse that you ae restless and
resumpuous, ae touing over So Wide a fea away from what your ow
Eiving bo rex to youself or others And very soon you tao will de, and will
posses no mare ofthe eath than suffices forthe bul of your boy" (71.8,
‘Avian tells us that Aleander responded to these fematks by praising the
Speakers for What they said The istrian also comments thatthe King di the
‘opposite of what they recommended, and draws his telling conclusion that
‘Attander “would always have searched far beyond for something unknown, i
‘competion with inself ia default of any ober val” (714),

"A rencyade Indian Gymnosophist named Calanus joined Alexander's
cexpediion, despite the censre his action drew fiom Bis own group. He
Iced some of Alexanders officer in his way of Hf, and the King became
quite atached to him. By the ine he reached esis, however, Calas, who bad
‘viously enjoyed perfect heath, became severely il Ignoring the King’s
neat, the age eefsed to adopt any eegimen hat would alter his ational
‘Way of life In Poss, as We shall se, Calas insisted oa burning himself 19
eat

‘THE BATTLE OF THE HYDASPES JHELUM) RIVER,
(26 BC)

In the spring of 326 the king marched toward the Jhelum with 5,000 additional
Indian oops under the leadership of Tales. Alexander pitched camp near
‘modern Haranpur and met witha wit and turbulent river, swollen by meted
Stow from the Himalayas. and ai, healing the onst ofthe monsoon season
Pons, the jah ofthe Paurva, a longstanding enemy of Tales, stood walling
to confront Alexander with an army of some 20,000 iafanuyiea, 3,000
owsemen, 300 chariots and 85 elephants”

He would not make way for Achilles

‘who

‘aks men

inbuce

1332)
‘Alexander aso beat that Abisres of Kashmir was on bis way to join forces
‘with Poeus, although that jah had given signs of subaision dough emissaics
inTaula

‘The king hoped to cros the slum as soon as possible, but his horses, lacking
she necessary specialized waning, were certain o panic and bot fom thei alls
once they had picked up the elephants’ scent. This would Hyow the ente anny
mo disarray. Well aware of his advantage, Porus concenated his elephants


Page 172, Instance 1, Class: Text
Upon seeing the king and his army. they began to stomp the ground with their
feet Alexander asked what was meant by this display, and was tod. "King
‘Alexander, each man possesses no moe ofthis earth than he pach We stand on
yet you, hough a man like oer men, except of couse that you ae restless and
resumpuous, ae touing over So Wide a fea away from what your ow
Eiving bo rex to youself or others And very soon you tao will de, and will
posses no mare ofthe eath than suffices forthe bul of your boy" (71.8,
‘Avian tells us that Aleander responded to these fematks by praising the
Speakers for What they said The istrian also comments thatthe King di the
‘opposite of what they recommended, and draws his telling conclusion that
‘Attander “would always have searched far beyond for something unknown, i
‘competion with inself ia default of any ober val” (714),

"A rencyade Indian Gymnosophist named Calanus joined Alexander's
cexpediion, despite the censre his action drew fiom Bis own group. He
Iced some of Alexanders officer in his way of Hf, and the King became
quite atached to him. By the ine he reached esis, however, Calas, who bad
‘viously enjoyed perfect heath, became severely il Ignoring the King’s
neat, the age eefsed to adopt any eegimen hat would alter his ational
‘Way of life In Poss, as We shall se, Calas insisted oa burning himself 19
eat


Page 173, Instance 0, Class: Text
eel seros the shore from the invaders while blnketing the shore with
cous who would report any attempt at erossing.”

“The challenge stimulated Alexander's imagination He dazed Pors with a
aleidoncpiedapay of motion and isin fom his sdeof te Hel, During
‘he da his woops would suddenly place their bats and fats on tothe iver and
Simolate the fist stages ofa crossing unt Pors pt his amy on ful alert and
Strategically elocated his eleants-A ight Aetander led is cavalry up and
down the wester bank in a chorus oft cries and wrumpets, which could also
betaken a prelude to invasion

‘Alexandr even announced publicly (For Posto eat tate tended 10
‘wai ou the summer season and tack i th autumn, whe conditions were ess
‘prohibive.A huge volume af provisions was ostentatious imported ito camp
{O lend credence otis spurious assertion The ultimate abjective of al this Was
to convince Pons that he was expending far too much ents) in tesponing to
‘ich of Alexander's many rises The, i was hoped, he woul stop sending out
the beasts,

“Aware hat his toops were becoming fused and exhausted, Poms posted a
‘pemancot guard and ordered thers of his mento remain at ease until the eal
owsing had begun. Alexander, who had teen offended. by Parmenio’s
Suggestion ofthe sae approach at Gaugamela, decided night atack. The
‘rossing would take place near moder Jlalpu ata thickly wooded bend ia the
fiver about 17 miles upsteum. Here thee was «deep ravine close to the bank
‘where Alexander could conceal his caval), anda island between the 660
‘mainlands tat would serve as. srcen fr his movements. Astong detachment
fof toops lft back a the min camp under Crates continued wo prepare opty
for ter ole inthe invasion, which woud occur when the elephants facing tent
‘were withdrawn or the enemy was routed.

Tn a vestable coup de ahd, Alexander bad @ man who resembled hen in
age features, and build ess i ral ative and parade i and ot of his teat
Stounded by the uadidonal guard.” At a distance the double offered a
convincing impersonation of the king, while elsewhere the teal Alexander
Impecepbly tended to the det of his strike.

Now

forthe night

We sll Keep watch on ouselies

and tomorow

carly

before dawn shows

shall cn ourselves

oats wecpone


Page 174, Instance 0, Class: Text
god
UL8s29.3))

‘When the ime came the king and is assault force moved toward the exossing in
silence ejoying relative ivisiilty eause of tei discreet distance fom the
‘hank The surpese attack was complicated by a heavy downpour and a severe
thunderstom, during which s numberof Alexander's men were stuck and ied
by Highning. The crossing oecused at ist igh, but was detected almost
‘mediately fier Alexander, na thity-oa ship, passed the land,

"As Pons scouts galloped o inform their king. Alexander became the firs 10
set foot on what was sumed to be the mialand. To his astnishen and
Aismay, however, he discovered that it was yet another island, and that a natow
‘but dep steam sil separated his force fom ss destination A fac serch
‘gan fora ford, One was discovered tha would barely sufic, and “Alexander
Ted them across i though with dificult. for the wate atts dcepest was above
the beasts ofthe focesoldes, while the horses kept only their beads above the
river"(AS.133, Ifthe King. who was less than imposing is eight, could mak
it the rest ould a wel

Porus onder his soa to take 60 chariots, along with 1,000 horsemen, and
uempt to prevent de invaders Hom landing They weee too late. Alexander's
rack cavalry proved to accomplished for the outaumbered Indian Howse,
fad heavy casuals were inflicted, among them Porus so. Driven off couse
by Alexanders mounted archers, the four-hosedchares ofthe Indians became
‘vein the rain Sedden sil and proved tobe as inetective as they had boea for
‘he Persians at Gaugamla. Ports, laving some elephants Behind to deter
crossing fom the invaders mai cam, moved noth wit the bulk of his army 19
‘Svat a decisive confrontation with Alexander.

"The use of elephants by the enemy provided a new challenge for Alexander
tout he devised a technique tha warsformed them int a hazard to their ow
‘masts. Faced with the mammoth betes, which may have been stationed 0 feet
Spar atthe font ofthe Indian line, Alexander decided to launch 3 two-phase
‘vary charge aginst the brsemen and chafots on Pons wings fist Aer
Pons had committed hosemen from both wings to an atack against what be
thought was the eneny's entire cavalry, Coenus, in hiding, would suddenly
appear with his horsemen and tap the Indians in a pincer movement. If
SHCEeSUl, these tactics would enable Alexander's infany. who had bee
Spoclly tained forthe purpose to deal wih the elephants, but is could nok
‘ecur util the enemy had been dow into a state af contusion

“Atows and javelin would then be diected atthe mahous who piloted these
Iiimidatng ceuures, and they would be dismounted by the long Macedonian
pikes. Inter iia encounter against these beast, however, the formation of
{he “invicible” phalanx was broken and many ofthe king’ infantrymen were
lwodden under hoot. Nevemelss, they were able regsoup before the


Page 175, Instance 0, Class: Text
advancing Indian troops reached them and, eventually, the king's iventive
{acts began o payoff

“Alexander's met stick viously atthe tender prs ofeach elephants body
witha double-headed axe leaving many ofthe animals i such exerucaing pai
that they rushed about trampling fiend and fe indiscriminately. Following tit
pln, the phalanx now genealy managed to evade the elephants’ charges, and
{hen shot at them fom behind as the beasts wheeled about As esl, the
Indians were soon suffering move from these bewildered ruts han were the
‘Macedonians. In the end, to weary to sustain a charge, the ives elephants
‘eueuted in unison, unpeting their bone-chilling seas of distes. BY 200
Porus uoops were surounded and had begun 10 pani. Craters crossed 0m
‘he man camp and se his rsh woops afer the eating enemy ib what tumed
fut tobe a bloody rout

"Even though vitory was no longer possible, Porus, who was n0 Dati
appeated deicrmined to see Uough to is gin conclusion, uni he sffeted a
incapacitating shoulder wound. Then this stately cath, who was, lke Datu,
about sand hal feet tl, began to back his immense lephan way fom the
Told with methodical digety. Alexander was impessed with his bearing and
portent, and sent Tasils off to persuade this remarkable adversary 1
Surender Porus responded by attacking his longstanding enemy. Tales, on
howseback, managed to distance himself inthe nick of tie. Nevertheless
“Alexander did noe show anger against Porus” (A.S.18-7), but continued 19
extend the olive branch dough a secession of messenges. Finally, exhausted
fad dehydated after 4 bute sepotely lasting eight hours. the vanquished
‘monarch dismounted and surrendered afer being Besecched 0 do 80 oaly by 8
triste rend

“Aller quebcing bis thst and regaining his beat, Pons asked tobe bought
to the vitor, Alexander, together with few Companions, rode ou to mee ion
nd asked how he though he shuld be ueated. His oleate reply Was, "Tieat
‘ne, Alexandey, like a King" (A'.192}." Delighted by this response, Alexander
‘Wanted 10 know whit else he might do that would plese im Pons answered
Taconclly that everything he dsted was embodied in that segues. Arian tll
that “Alexander asl the mote pleased with this reply" (319-3),

Aisolchad writen tit noble me should desire the recognition fhe noble
‘men becatse it validated thet own virtue. This, and the fact that Prue was
‘ote sally ifthe Punjab were tobe hed, probably influenced Alexander's
‘otable encounter with such a chivaic pec. In eecogniion of the raal's
tallansy. and because he could scarcely hope 10 coat this eegon hinselt
‘Aeanrcestored the Pauraa to Pors, He eventually invested fu with ll of
the teiory east ofthe Slum and west ofthe Beas." The jah remained loyal
fd valuable supporter throughout Alexander’ lie

‘These 1wo fought each other


Page 176, Instance 0, Class: Text
before they were parted
3301-2)
Porus was peviled upon to reconcile wit his old enemy Taxis, who had also
‘een given additional tortor). The Indian sults balanced ope ape east and
‘west ofthe Jhelum, but both emained under the uepis of Alexander.

Bucephulas Alexander's famous sted, ded ofthe wounds he suffered during
te bute He was 30 eats od, but it was sill said that noone but Alexander
‘could mount this large and noble hose The two bad been together through eis
fd wiumph for most of thir ves. Plutarch tells us thatthe king “was plunged
fmt gue at his death, and fl that he had lost nthing less dan a fend and 8
comrade” (61.2)-A ety, Bucepbala, Was founded inthe oese's name onthe West
‘hank of he Helin,

“Alexander was exceptionally fond of animals. These i a story that he loved a
og called Pests afte the Macedonian month of Tanar), which he had raised
from a puppy. He honored this faithful creature by naming a city after him 3s
‘wel! Furthermore, a sivne dedicated to Helos (He Sua i Tala sad 1
‘have housed Poms’ retired elephant dubbed Ajax by Alexander after the beas's
Homeric perfomance atthe Jhelum.” Is clear from the sources tha the king
found animals o be moce loyal and ess woublesome than human beings, whose
allegiance often cared quliatons.

Abisats of Kashi. who never appeared atthe Jhelum subseguently sent his
Iworher to Alexander with ich sft including fory elephant He agreed to do
anything thatthe king wished him to d, shor of rlingishing his ova tle
‘Abisats' rotor claimed thatthe aja Was il, oe he would have appeed i
person. A suspicious Alexander demanded his presence, but scems to have
‘withdraw his ultimatum when the ilies was auhentisted. A city of Victory.
‘Nicaea was founded (vith Athen in mind) on the east bank ofthe Shela!” The
King, made hie castomay sacrifices to the gods in thanksgiving for his
‘esounding wiumph Athletic ad equesvian competitions ia bonor ofthe gods
‘Were eld where thecossng had taken place abd the oops wee sivena month's
‘est. When the mach was feed, Craterus was lft hind fo fi the new
‘ies. He was also ordered to construct let. Upon the king's eur, this lest
‘would sil dwn the Thlum, ino the Indus, and hen ou tothe open se.

"Same scholar repr that frame Alesandes geographical misconceptions
ted him to believe thatthe rivers he encountered were ely sources ofthe Nile
River. He perhaps easoned tht the whole expedition would be abe to sl on
the Indus—which would become the Nilo—into his Egyptian Alexandsia.”
(Considering Alexander's excellent insligence system” howeve, this assertion,
as Peter Green pont ou." i sunlikly asthe contention that he stl beloved
that the end of the land war within shor march. Alexander personally
Interviewed those best infoemed about the fgion in which he tele, and
passed 00 only cursory information to those accompanying hi The Woops


Page 177, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘could hus be persuaded to advance from one river to the next with the daceptive
‘omise that they would soon be weated oa glimpse of the Eastern Ocean,

‘Alexander moved eastward actors the lands bordering. Porus Kingdom,
accepting the sutender of dozens of independent cites aloag the way The
inhabitants ofthese cites apparently decided agains offering ay opposition to
the man who had defeated Ponts so convincingly. All did not go stot.
however. The crossing ofthe Chena was so rough that many of the kins boats
and men were lost. It was also necessary for Hephaestion 1 deal with Pos
‘ebelius cousin ls called Porus)-Alekander coatnued oa to the Rav, where
alter the crossing. he learned of the planned resistance oa the pat of the Ware
Cathsans, who lived between the Rai andthe Bess

“The Macedonians besieged the Cathaean capital at Sangala with the axsiance
of 5000 Indian woops under Pus. Although they were nally able to overcome
ie defenders aftr several days of intensive fighting. the ere resistance forced.
‘Alexander atone point to step down fom his hoes ainsi his pala by
leading ton foot Polemy claims that 17,000 Indians were killed and 70.000
captured This may be an exaggeration He also records that some 1.200
Macedonians were seriously wounded, with 100 reported killed, Tis isthe
largest number of esuales suffered by Alexanders army thats acknowledged
bythe “official” sources. Alexander seat word the other hostile eis in the
cnty tat be “would ot weat them harshly iftheystajed where they Were and
ceived him in a fren way, just as he had shown ao harshest an ofthe
‘ter self-governing Indians who bad voluntary surendered (A248).

Nevertieles, thousands of teifed Indians fled from these its,
‘wit Alexander once he ha Isrned oftheir dispersal, in pursuit. Mos of those
fefugees who enjoyed head start managed to escape, bu those “let behind in
‘he reueat tough iafirty weteeapured and pa to death bythe army, tothe
‘number of about five hundred” (A'5247). Alexander rewrned to. Sangala,
Toveled the iy, and distibuted the tenitvies formerly comwolld by the
Catsans among wes who had made their submission, Schuchermeyr observes
that Alerander was “1 Titanic soq” whe bad oo foreign policy eter thn
equst for submission and loved al people in so fara they obeyed im and isn
‘dove.

Curios cates a story regarding Sophithes, a local king in this area, who
emerged from one of his cites and wimed aver his golden scepter, hms, his
huldea, and his people to Alexander He weated the king 1o an exhibition of
Several powerful and courageous hunting dogs that, it was sd, must have bad
Some tiger blood in them. Four ofthese dogs the try goes, were pte apanst
‘ge lon, A man who worked with these animals tugged at the lgs of one of
{he dogs that had is tet embedded in he Hin, bu he wainer could not distact
‘he hound from is prey. The man then began io hack avay atthe dog's lg with
‘scimitar, This drew indignant protests fom Alexander, who was silenced by
Sophithes® promise to give the king Hwee other dogs ofthe same type The
hhandler then peoceeded to slowly sever the dog's le witout so mucha yelp or
‘whimper fro the aniinal, I Bled to death sith ts teeth still implanted in its


Page 178, Instance 0, Class: Text
quany. This display of determination and tenacity obviously impressed
‘Alexander

‘Ae the Rate ofthe helm Alexander scifi to Helis, who bad given
‘him the easem repioas to congue” (D-17 89.3)" Ashe advanced to the Beas
‘River, he may well have wondered wha mistake had heen made ia the saciSee
luvas the monsoon season, and ain el incessatly on his men, accompanied by
an opplesive humidity apd continual ging and hunde.

"The rin continued fo seventy days, Leaving uniforms wearable, coroding
armor and weapons, abd misig cas in What had Begun to resemble ap endless
‘og Moisture nas eveywher, the fod Was mol. and mildew and 11 soon
‘came a most Familia dor nesses began to speead tough the camp. What
‘was worse, however, was tha the inundation had shed out legion of kes
‘of every size and vaiety imaginable, and they were everywhere Strabo quotes
‘one of Alexandr’ tse frends onthe subject

‘Newrhus wonders atthe numberof the reptiles and their vicious, foe

‘he says that theme of the inundtions they fle up fom the plains io

the setlements tat escape the inundations, andl the houses! andthe

Sabian not only make thi beds bigh, but sometimes even move oat of

{heir houses when infested by 100 many often: ab that ithe greater pa

ofthe multitude of reptiles were not destroyed by the waters, the country

‘Would be depopulated: and that the suullass of some’ of them

‘woublesome as Well athe huge size of others.

(ss)
‘Alexander's mea found deaily rat venomous Asian snakes) in their bots and
‘Shudered atthe sight of enormous boa constrictors” They slept hammocks
tied between tices in order to avoid «snakebite that might esl in thi bleeding
{0 death or being posonod. Aleander, Nearcus ‘es us tough Arian
“collected and Kept y hin all the Indians most skilled in medicine, and had it
announced in camp that anyone ten by a snake was 10 go tothe royal eat”
(ind 15.11). This was one pavilege tht nove of his soldiers was ansious to


Page 179, Instance 0, Class: Text
“MUTINY” AT THE HYPHASIS (BEAS) RIVER (3268C)

‘The Lng, now jst inside moder Inia, had every intention of eossing the Beas
[River soon Became clear however, tha the eae abstacle to tis objective
‘ame from within bis ow ranks, Veterans who had crossed the Hellespont with
‘im cight years before, and ad muyched over 17.000 miles, were having 20
‘mote of ic Rumows ciculated bout the Ganges River, and about a kingdom
head with $0,000 horsemen, 200,000 fot soldiers, 000 charts, and, worse
ye, 6000 elephants. Alenanders soldiers had survived every conceivable ordeal
“nt how. They had hen motivated by Alexander's example abd his clever se
of read and punishment. They had als, occasionally. felt the shame of
‘Ssappoining this extnednary leader Butt they looked across the Bea tot
nother desolate pai, st became apparent io his sodies that perhaps the king
‘Would simply Keep going. Arian himself tats that for Aletander "thee could
‘hemo end ofthe war as lng as any enemy Was et" (5.24.8),

Forever quarreling

fs dear to yourheurt

and ware

find ates

wim

Hoping to plese his woops, Alesander authorized a ravaging of the Indian
‘countyside™ Te was not Persepolis but here Was plenty to be had. The Woops
‘wreaked havoc onthe natives, most of whom had volun surrendered to the
King. While his men were away, Alexander couted whatever family they bad
accumulated on the expedition." twas announced that a moa raion was 19
‘fe dstibuted to tet Women, and bonus, based upon thei fathers" secs,
given othe oldie children, This stention and consideration, hough tering
{wal ofthe parties concemed, was especially pratiying to the young boys who
‘might someday serve under Alexander.

Unfortunatly fr the king, however, al ofthis counted fr naught as far as is
woops were concerned, His men gathered in small groups. commiserating oer
thei plight and lamenting the fac that Alexandr was Taking on one hard und
langezous tsk afer another” (AS252). Some soldiers wee so disgused that
they were openly proclaiming thee refusal to follow Alexander any Tues. As
espa gue and discipline evaporated, the teat of outight muy loomed.
‘The king ealed a meeting of his regimental consmandess and spoke o them nan
Jmpassioned voice. Aman, relying an Polem.. who was preseat on this
cctasion, provides us wit a speech that although awed in regatd © Some
arcu is convincing in tne and consonant with past examples:

T observe that you, Macedonians and allie [Gresk officers. ate not

following me into dangers any longer with your old spit. 1 have

summoned you together either to persuade you to go forward, o 0 be
petuaded by you tot back. indeed you have any fault find with he


Page 179, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘countryside. "" It was not Persepolis, but there was plenty to be had. The troops
‘wreaked havoc onthe natives, most of whom had volun surrendered to the
King. While his men were away, Alexander couted whatever family they bad
accumulated on the expedition." twas announced that a moa raion was 19
‘fe dstibuted to tet Women, and bonus, based upon thei fathers" secs,
given othe oldie children, This stention and consideration, hough tering
{wal ofthe parties concemed, was especially pratiying to the young boys who
‘might someday serve under Alexander.

Unfortunatly fr the king, however, al ofthis counted fr naught as far as is
woops were concerned, His men gathered in small groups. commiserating oer
thei plight and lamenting the fac that Alexandr was Taking on one hard und
langezous tsk afer another” (AS252). Some soldiers wee so disgused that
they were openly proclaiming thee refusal to follow Alexander any Tues. As
espa gue and discipline evaporated, the teat of outight muy loomed.
‘The king ealed a meeting of his regimental consmandess and spoke o them nan
Jmpassioned voice. Aman, relying an Polem.. who was preseat on this
cctasion, provides us wit a speech that although awed in regatd © Some
arcu is convincing in tne and consonant with past examples:

T observe that you, Macedonians and allie [Gresk officers. ate not

following me into dangers any longer with your old spit. 1 have

summoned you together either to persuade you to go forward, o 0 be
petuaded by you tot back. indeed you have any fault find with he


Page 179, Instance 4, Class: Text
"MUTINY" AT THE HYPHASIS (BEAS) RIVER (326 BC)

“The king, now just inside modem Inia, hal every tention of crossing the Beas
River Tesoon became clear, hows, hte greatest obstacle to this objective
‘ame from within bis ow ranks, Veterans who had crossed the Hellespont with
him eight years before, and had muched over 17,00 mile, were having no
‘mote of ic Rumows ciculated bout the Ganges River, and about a kingdom
thead with 800 horsemen, 200,000 fot soldier, 00 chariots, snd, wor
ye, 6000 elephants. Alenanders soldiers had survived every conceivable ordeal
“nt how. They had hen motivated by Alexander's example abd his clever se
of revatd and punishment. They had als, occasionally. fet the shame of
‘Ssappoining this extnednary leader Butt they looked across the Bea tot
nother desolate pai, st became apparent io his sodies that perhaps the king
‘Would simply Keep going. Arian himself tats that for Aletander "thee could
‘hemo end ofthe war as lng as any enemy Was et" (5.24.8),


Page 180, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘no object in my speaking further. If, however, itis through these exertions
‘hat Tonia now in our hands, and [a summay of thet conquests hy
do you estate to ad the Hyphasis andthe peoples beyond the Hypbass
{o ts Macedonian empite of ous? Do you fet lest ther arbi may
yet withstand your approach
Far my ptt, Ist to limi fo exertions fora man of noble spit, save
thatthe exertions themselves should lad to deeds of prowess. Yet if any
‘one longs to ear what will be the it of the atu ighting. be should
‘understand tht there gemains no great suet of land before us up the
river Ganges and the easem sea-if we finch ow, there will be many
‘wate races It behind on the far side of the Hyphasis... Then out
‘numerous exertions wil nde be profess or we shal have tsa again
‘with es exetions and dangers. But you must persevere... Etrtions and
anges ae the pice of deods of protess, adits sweet for mea to ive
‘wavely, and die leaving behind thom immoral renown, Ordo you Bo
Snow that it was not by remaining in [Greve)that our ancestor
[Heracls) tained sich enown that fom a man be became, o Was bel. &
sod? Even Dionysus, 4 more delice god than Heracles, hud not Tes
Tabouss to pesform- Aad yet we have stall passed beyond Nysa and
taken the rock Aornos, which Heracles could ot take, Lat tbe your task
{to add what yt remains of Asia the possesion already won, a smal
‘ongust in comparison,
6253266)
and sce no good thing's acomplishment
forusinthe end
antes
‘we do
this
73823)
Alexander then reminded his woops that he shared in al of thee ahora sks
not fr himselt, ut fr them, and promised that n seeing this campaign tough
Il would be rewarded beyond thei wildest deams. After their wok Was
“ottpleted bre would allow crwome whe wished to venana homme to te st. cm


Page 180, Instance 1, Class: Text
[Eieencles] sttsined sock memowrn thet frcen 9 man he beacons, ox wes held, 5

sod? Even Dionysus, 4 more delice god than Heracles, hud not Tes

Tabouss to pesform- Aad yet we have stall passed beyond Nysa and

taken the rock Aornos, which Heracles could ot take, Lat tbe your task

{to add what yt remains of Asia the possesion already won, a smal

‘ongust in comparison,

6253266)

and sce no good thing's acomplishment

forusinthe end

antes

‘we do

this

73823)

‘Alexander the reminded his uoops that he shared in ll of thei abr and isk,
‘ot for himself but or them and promised that in seeing this campaign though,
ll would be rewarded beyond their widest dreams. After their woek Was
Completed he would allow anyone who wished to retum home wo do so, and
psthape lead them ack hinelf, wile making it unimagiably profitable for
{hose who chose to remain in Asia

“Alexander's words wete greeted With an unsettling sence, since "no one
either dated o oppose the King onthe spur ofthe moment, owas yet willing
Spree” (A527: Alexander then invited anyone who disagiced will him 1
‘oice his vows, but silence coainved wo reign. Finally. Coens, a senior office
‘who had ecenly acid hinelf well inte bate against Por, spoke up is
ecotded words, even if they belong moce to Arvin than to Coens offer some


Page 180, Instance 4, Class: Text
tees

‘Alexander the reminded his uoops that he shared in ll of thei abr and isk,
‘ot for himself but or them and promised that in seeing this campaign though,
AAI would he rewarded beyond their widest dreams After their work wat
Completed he would allow anyone who wished to retum home wo do so, and
psthape lead them ack hinelf, wile making it unimagiably profitable for
{hose who chose to remain in Asia

“Alexander's words wete greeted With an unsettling sence, since "no one
either dated o oppose the King onthe spur ofthe moment, owas yet willing
Spree” (A527: Alexander then invited anyone who disagiced will him 1
‘oice his vows, but silence coainved wo reign. Finally. Coens, a senior office
‘who had ecenly acid hinelf well inte bate against Por, spoke up is
‘ecorded words even if they beloag move 9 Arian than to Coens offer some


Page 181, Instance 0, Class: Text
insight into how it was thought best to approach the King on a subject that was,
likly to rigger his anges.

‘Cocnus made iter that he was nt speaking fr his fellow offices, who “ate
zealous to serve you in every Way. but on behalf af the majo inthe amy".
27.2} Not he emphasized, lo eu favor with them, Dt in ode tobe “Useful
yourself in presen ctcunstances and mast conducive to safety forthe future” (S.
27.3). To jy his earnest response to the King's etre request for opposing
arguments Coenus cited bis age, "the superior rank you have granted me, abd the
uahesitating daring [have shown upto now in exertions and dangess (S273)
The words paso on by Avian portay a man who seems 1o be Walking on, and
occasionally cracking, egg sells

‘The successes achieved by you as our leader and by those who set ou with

{Yo fom our homies have ben xo merous and splendid that for tha ery

{eaon [think it more in ur interest to set some lint to exertions and

‘dangers. Surely you see yourself how many Macedonians and Greeks we

‘were when we set forthwith you, and how many survive. The Thesslians

{you sent taight ome frm Baca observing tat they had ile Beart

Tet for further exetions and you were righ. As fr the other Greks, some

‘have teen setded in the cis you have founded, and even they do not

‘emain thee enely of thet ov fee will. others have been avalide.

From wounds, and have been Toft bbind in diffrent pasts of Asia: but

‘ost have did of sickness, and of ll ht hos few survive, and even they

‘0 longer enjoy thir bal stuengh, while thei pit far move Weaed.

(out One and all they long to sce their parens.wives..chldren.

‘omeland.for wit the honour ofthe provision you have made fr them,

‘hey wil ctr great and weal... Itis nt fr you now 1 be a leader of

‘unviling troops. For you will no longer find men meeting dangers as they

‘once did. But fit please you, return in person to your own country. lok.

‘on your own mother sete the afar ofthe Grecks and. alter binging

{hese vietries, aumevous and splendid, to you father's house, den indeed

‘gin again and fitout another expedition... but your flowers will be

cotter Macedonians otbet Greeks, youns men in place oF ald, men who ae

fresh and.-have no ined fet of war, having bo expetince of i.

they ill see he partners in your etlir exertions and danges returned 6

{el own lands ahd raised fom poverty 10 ches and fem absent 10

high renown, Nothing, Sits so unquestionably good as sound mind in

00d fortune and, hough with ou a commander and such an amy to ead

‘our enemies can inspite no fat te strokes of divine power are beyond the

fovsight and therefore beyond the precautions of human begs.

e249)
The apg commander apparently fl ha someone ad to apprise the hing ofthe
gravity of the stuaon. That responsibilty had fallen ow him by default If
Alexander would have become upset over a speech of this sort within his


Page 182, Instance 0, Class: Text
ita cice of fiends, he was outage at such candor i fon of his officer
comps. To aggravate the situation fhe. the specch met with general approval
‘Maya seasoned officer was moved i teas.

‘Alexander wa inited t Coens fred of languige and the imiiy of
the other officers” (A.$281) and summarily dismissed the entve group. He
convene them the very nex a. oay to announce that he, for one, Was going
fn ahead, but would not free any Macedonian to accompany him agaist his
will He would be joined exclusively by those who followed thet king on &
Voluntary ass. Otrs who wished 1 tua Back could do so, but would have 0
Tet thee fellow countrymen know that they bal Tet their king sucounded by

Run away

by all means

‘your heart dives you

Til cc entest yu

to sty hee

formy sake

‘There are thers

wit ne

‘who wil dome

honour

ad above all

Zen

UL Lis)
‘Sill angry, Alexander withdrew to his tent fortwo days, refusing to see any of
‘is Companions and hoping for a miraculous change inthe peevalng mood.”

"The Ling had sed every technique in bs reper He knew full well ha it
‘would be impossible wo cat on without his Macedonians for although hey 2007
‘onsitued a aumerial ion in his ary, they rernained indispensable to his
command stcture, bate plans, communications. and logistics: and so 10
[oceed without them guaranteed dsstr The problem was that his troops were
ually aware of this At that arcu juactue it was sill uite possible for
them fo retrace their steps back tothe Hellepoat tough teioy aleady
subjugate, even, itnecesay, witout thee king

ssi were some dishonouted vagabond

UL 1639)
“The Macedonians responded to Alexanders Acillan posturing with heir own
sullen comportment. When it became clea that neither bis officers noe the
common soldiers would acopt him in the role of a victim of cicumstnces,
‘which had worked so wll a Maracanda, Alexander was under pessure to come
‘up witha device that would save hn fiom a uniting revere He rose tothe


Page 182, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘intimate ciscle of fiends, he was outraged at such candor in front of his officer
comps. To aggravate the situation fhe. the specch met with general approval
‘Maya seasoned officer was moved i teas.

‘Alexander wa inited t Coens fred of languige and the imiiy of
the other officers” (A.$281) and summarily dismissed the entve group. He
convene them the very nex a. oay to announce that he, for one, Was going
fn ahead, but would not free any Macedonian to accompany him agaist his
will He would be joined exclusively by those who followed thet king on &
Voluntary ass. Otrs who wished 1 tua Back could do so, but would have 0
Tet thee fellow countrymen know that they bal Tet their king sucounded by


Page 182, Instance 4, Class: Text
‘Sill angry, Alexander withdrew to his tent fortwo days, refusing to see any of
‘is Companions and hoping for a miraculous change inthe peevalng mood.”

"The Ling had sed every technique in bs reper He knew full well ha it
‘would be impossible wo cat on without his Macedonians for although hey 2007
‘onsitued a aumerial ion in his ary, they rernained indispensable to his
command stcture, bate plans, communications. and logistics: and so 10
[oceed without them guaranteed dsstr The problem was that his troops were
ually aware of this At that arcu juactue it was sill uite possible for
them fo retrace their steps back tothe Hellepoat tough teioy aleady
subjugate, even, itnecesay, witout thee king

ssi were some dishonouted vagabond

UL 1639)

“The Macedonians responded to Alexanders Acillan posturing with heir own
sullen comportment. When it became clea that neither bis officers noe the
common soldiers would acopt him in the role of a victim of cicumstnces,
‘which had worked so wll a Maracanda, Alexander was under pessure to come
‘Which had worked so well at Maracanda, Alexander was under pressure to come


Page 183, Instance 1, Class: Text
chullenge by solemaly ordering sacifices to determine divine pinion regarding
{he cosing To everyone's oli, thesatitces proved unfavorable"

Can you not ee

that ihe power

ot Zeus

to longer

‘with you

8140)

‘The king then called in some of his older Companions and close fiends to share
{his inauspicious but useful information, He came tothe coaluson, he ai. hat
all things considered. st was bes 1o tum back. He then peoeeded to announce
this decison tothe entice camp. The amy wus beside elf with oy. Tongs
Mocked 1 the royal tent, weeping openly ad imploiag the gods to hess thei
ing

you wl eat out

fhe heart within you

that you did no honour

womhetes

ofthe Achaia

a,

[N.G.L Hammond shods some light on Alexander's handling ofthe situation:

He convened not a msting ofthe Assembly but mestng ofthe leading

officers, among whom wete not-Macedonians. Such groups guve advice

faly. The decsion tested withthe Commander. When the stant

continued, he ealed @ mowing of Macedonian leading officers only. He

‘conveyed dough them his military decision totum back, He had avoided.

the consitutonal issue, excep insofar asthe sacrifice was made and the

‘omens were respected by him a king of Macedon. He emerged unscathed.

in this role and even as commander of the amy he eared his soldier

‘rtd.
‘Alexander divide the amy into 12 units and ordered each of them 1 exet altars
4s high as and wider than the lagest of the siege towers. These monuments
‘Would serve as a thanksgiving “to the gods who had brought him so far a6
Conguetor, and as memorials of his ova exertions” (AS 29.1). When the altars
‘were fined, Alexander performed sactifices atop these edifices ina scene of
exemplary piety rivaling any mythological ale. Alexanders alas st the eas
‘were to symbolize in the East an analogy to the 12 alts erected by his


Page 184, Instance 0, Class: Text
foie Heals a thee end ofthe wold. They wete alo emulave of
Dongen”

‘Some histone argue that Alexander ordre traces tobe left hat would
suggest ht i camp ais ibaa wets tins hiatal si. Armoc
a tuperhananpropaon,Cyelopean bec and couche, td ote equestan
‘ton had psc tht way. While nun modern trans fas otha’ of
{is Seoul. such Winking maynot have Bee all tht alent 4 Ming with
‘Nandos heat odencs and ui, Swept up inthe cation of fly
loki toward steamy Dsl iduge he King ia he raion of
‘Pando bem poy

ny sory

sao

®

fgonen

tw73))

‘Alexander's playflly sugested obi ha they were response fr
{hc only deat be ha ever tied He underood the tony nti ay”
joke all to well. was the bumor that clad hi What could have Been
‘tiny bad lossoned int tera econeiaton, butte fact tht is own
{Toop woud ot follow in, even if ordre to do ao, ws a tai that
‘Aletandr found dificuto-ascept.Petapr by desig the oops blamed
‘ennelves forthe enbrrasing sate of fai Oat had developed, thereby
‘eoving Wiring o any respon inthe mater. While wig io apt
{he implication thatthe Tul ay caewhee, Alexander war uncnforble wih
{he vocabulary of defeat and esntl ove a lost opportunity Yo ae one of he
‘Mow extavagan of his was fall Publicly he towed tothe wil of be
sods dace the grade of hs too In private fumed”

the het

‘iin

‘i 10.107)
(Fate Alexander ad been he vis ofan unely costo of fses agsinst
eich even hs blanc. and tctacoumes proved. wt lnadeue
Tnfleraie damp, the aiguous sate, even Ne wa folowert tay have
pear ohn to be ina inser cnspiuy agaist is dain. Alexander
‘erie is union the toe only god toward whom he ha dad 3
ater of dsespet, Dionysus"


Page 185, Instance 0, Class: Text
OCEAN (325 BC)

‘Alexander's men retumed to Babylon, but not by reticing tsi steps. Afer
‘marching back to the Jhelum and repairing the damage done to Nica and
Bucephala by the ans, Alexander inspected the ships prepared by Crates, and
then mapped out his pla to subdue the Malli and Gxydsete, two fees,
independent ides in the lower Push and Sind. He was determined 10
‘overtone all opposition on both sides ofthe rver system in hs viii, down
to the mouth of the Inds

Tone seas, by tuning south and conquering this region, Alexander was
simply restoring Persian contol over the soutesstm portion ofthe Kingdom
fd reestablishing a secure eastern frome On the other and, this exacting
journey enabled im to get to Ocean while simultaneously making it lear this
‘men tat he altemative to crossing the Beas Was les tac Un they might
‘have imagined

1 go now tothe ends of the generous earth

‘oa visit to Okeanos

‘whence the gods

have sen

dL 14200-1)
(Coenus died at the Shum ofan unspecified less and was given am elaborate
funeral, Ther so han evidence fo suggest sniser explanation, but among.
soliiess who had witnessed the disappearance of mote than oae man who bad
fallen from grace, there mst have been a few questions raised at this
cineidental end to an officer who had the tmeiy to champion thet case
publicly before the king"

‘Ely in November 326 a great armada set sail from Jalalabad under
‘Alexaer_ with Onescrts at his chief stectsman and. Neathus his
‘aia The hing's sailors were fom Phoenicia the Geock islands, the
Hellespont, Asia Minor, and Egypt. Thity-two sponsoss were giveb the
Aliscinction of contributing to this enterprise, in the same manner that weal
‘Atbnians financed Yessels for thir e's avy. Avin’s list of the honorary
‘apa ofthese warships (rare), drawn from Nears” account, ices
Hephacston, Leonatus, Lysimachus (a Royal Bodyguard who Wied to restrain
‘Alexander daring his brawl with Cleius), and Bagoas, the son of Pharuches,”
Some ofthe edher names listed belong to men who were important both dain
land after the expedition: Crates, Prdiceas,Peucests (soon help save the
Kings ie), Pole, Meds of Larisa (a droking companion ofthe king) and
Eumones of Cardia the Royal Secretary under both Philp and Alexander

"AU the Them Aleander made his customary saifices, as well as those
‘xdeed by Ammon to Poseidon, Amphitite (the daughter of Ocean and wife of
Poseidon), the Nevids, Osean ihelum, Chenab, an Inds. Competitions were
held in honor ofthe gods, and the king's toops were treated to a sumptuous
Feast At dan on the day of departure Alexander tood on the eow of his ship


Page 186, Instance 0, Class: Text
and poured libstion from a golden bow! ino the Jhelum. He called upon that
tvr, the Chena, andthe Indus ad prayed for thet good graces. He also poured
4 ibtio wo Heracles Prpator (Frater), and one to Ammen, bis oly public
‘erfice othe late deity on scord*

“Trumpets lated and a Nola of 2.080 ships of diverse size and description, with
‘heir sais ded purple, se out oa is voyage southar" The umber af ghting
‘men in Alexanders ost may acally have appeoximated the 120,000 claimed
bby Nearchus It was a splendid pageant enhanced bya chorus of spontancous
‘ging fom the local population, who were drain tthe shore to withes such 8
‘strange sight Alexanders strike force sled wit him. Craters led an infant
‘hatalion and the caval aloag the westem bank, while Hephestion paraded
lov the easier side withthe emainer ofthe troops andl ofthe elephants in
‘what must have been aajestie spectacle.

Bear onthe god

son of god

your

Dionysus

home

(ba. 8-9)

‘Traces of tension and intemal conflict, however, were delectable beneath the
euphoric pageanty. Iwas out of necessity that Crus and Hephaeton
‘marched down the helum on opposite sies of the vier. Thee sv foe the
King's approbation had blossomed into a reciprocal hated, which ukimately
‘ocame Unsetling wo others beside themselves. While Cates could not mach
Hephaeston's enthusiasm when it came to some of Alexander's polices, the
‘general was loyal, extemely able, apd very useful Inthe following incident itis
Interesting to note the Way ia which each of te individuals was tebuked by
‘Alexander may shed some light on Alexander's feolings toward he 10 me,
‘swell show be saw them in celation to his power,

At one pont the two vvals dew swords and Went atone anther, with dei
fiends and supporters joining in the fracas. The king Yode up and berated
Hephaeson there and then, reminding him “that he mst bea fool and a
‘madman if be did pot understand tht without Alexander's favour be was
nothing” 47.1015"

Sone spoke

and Patklos obeyed

L138)
Later Craters was sharply reprimanded in private and the two were force 19
effec reconciliation. Alexander "swore by [Ammon] and the west ofthe gods
{hat these were the two mene loved bes in the Word, But that ihe ever Beard


Page 186, Instance 1, Class: Text
and poured libstion from a golden bow! ino the Jhelum. He called upon that
tvr, the Chena, andthe Indus ad prayed for thet good graces. He also poured
4 ibtio wo Heracles Prpator (Frater), and one to Ammen, bis oly public
‘erfice othe late deity on scord*

“Trumpets lated and a Nola of 2.080 ships of diverse size and description, with
‘heir sais ded purple, se out oa is voyage southar" The umber af ghting
‘men in Alexanders ost may acally have appeoximated the 120,000 claimed
bby Nearchus It was a splendid pageant enhanced bya chorus of spontancous
‘ging fom the local population, who were drain tthe shore to withes such 8
‘strange sight Alexanders strike force sled wit him. Craters led an infant
‘hatalion and the caval aloag the westem bank, while Hephestion paraded
lov the easier side withthe emainer ofthe troops andl ofthe elephants in
‘what must have been aajestie spectacle.


Page 187, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘em quarelling again, he would Kil dhem bot, ora east the one who Began
the quel Aer this, i is sad. nother of thm ever did or said anything 19
offend th oer even i js (PAT 12).

‘Alexander's actions can peshups best be undesstond in tems of Avistde’s|
lscusson of fendship. The philosopher maitains Hat elanships wit oer
‘people sem to proceed from one's elainship with oneself" Inthe noblest of
Tendships, he sas vitwous person ot only weal and asi he were a
second sf but swing to scifi his own personal intrest for tose of his
Tend. While Alexander's behavior with Hepbueston often lived up to soe of
‘Arisot's loftest requirements for tre friendship, when i came to 4 each of
Interests thee can belle doubt aso who was uppermost inthe king's min

‘Bx roe, st the confluence ofthe Ihelum aod the Chena, the kings own ship
‘was putin extreme danger by the swt and violent esren” Diodorus tells us
‘hat Alexander, with death stig him in the fae, plummeted ino the iver
‘whet his itends were swimming alongside the ship in ease it sould eapsize*
Both the king nd his ship managed o make it asote. This tefying experience
Js eminiscent of 4 Homeric encounter whesein Aletande, ike Aces I-21
224-382, suugals with river and uiumps avert

‘The Mall (Malas), who provided Aletander's most formidable challenge in
tis wek toward Ocean inhabited the region between the Chenab and the Rav
‘They lived up to thet Yeputation as ferocious Wasirs. Despite this, Alexaber
viciously suppessed any esistance and moved tough the ttry lke a
tornado. One of the clues east of the Revi housed Bahan. the priestly
istotati clase that provided much ofthe inspiration forthe stiff opposition
the invaders, and apunst whom Alexander sometimes aopted a policy of

Tn some instances the defenders ume their houses fom the inside as their
city was razed. Tis was sypical ofthe type of uncompromising fesistance that
‘Alexander's men could expect to find thoughout the mainder o this campaign
‘The enthusiasm ofthe uoops Was Soon Maggiag again. During the assault 0a ane
Brahman iowa, twas Alexander himself who mounted the Wall festa onder 10
shame his men aw a move spied tack

say hat man

‘who this day

‘wilfully hangs back

from the fighting

‘never win ome again

bursty here

and be made dogs delight

forthe feasting

Cas)
‘Soon after, in Anan’s account ofa famous and near-fatal episode, Alexander
‘took it upon himself once again 10 provide the incentive against a besieged


Page 188, Instance 0, Class: Text
citadel Impatient atthe perfunctory efforts of his soldiers, he seized one ofthe
Scaling ladders during seg and, with his shield over his head. proceeded 10
Tead the assault With only a handful of alt attendants scaring up the ladder
aller him, the king began wo engage the enemy in intense fighting 001 af the
‘al. Once the realized that thet king Wasi jeopardy. his men eased up the
tier Wo avalaleladdes, only wo overload and Iveak them. Aswide the
betlemens in his conspicuous panoply. and vulaerable 1o archers tom several
lectins, Alexander jumped down inside the wall.

Could not a go

ule

yourity walls?

(a. 654)

‘Theo the men whohad mae tothe top ofthe wall before the ladders collapsed
jumped down inside with Alexander. They were eucests (4 native of Miez.
TTeonnats. and a certain Abveas, 2 corpcal in the fant. Alexander fought
furiously kiling several ofthe enemy, unite Brahmans atacked the neds
‘with every mise avaiable. Areas was killed almost instaty. Then Alexa
‘was struck by along, Beavy Indian arow with such force htt went though bis
urs and piwced his lung. With blood pouiag out around the sb the King
‘ecame Fin nd gradually collapsed behind his shield

Disaster caught his wits

nd his shining body

rerveless

“dl 16808)

Peucestas raised the sacred shld of Troy over the king on one side while
‘Leonnats defended hin on the eter. One became clear thatthe king as
inside the enemy's walls, his men desperatly harnmered makeshift pogs ito the
‘ud wall and clined on top of one another to gain access othe top. When their
fallen King was spoted, grouts were mingled with a bate cry. The brute
strength tht makes sts Meeting appearance in these times of esis enabled them
to bing down a big enough portion ofthe wal to permittee comrades o pou
Jim te city Every native man, Woman, abd ld Was slaygered.

‘Meanie, Alexander, pshaps close to death tha ole, was catied out on
tis abil The shaft ofthe arow was cu off with dificult and his cues a
moved. The arowhead 4 y 3 inches—had embedded self above the nipple.
‘Alexander ozdered it cat out Pesdceas operated with his sword, the loa
‘ushod forth, and Alexander fll ino 4 dead fain This served to aes the
‘leding and probably saved his life, Citbulus, a physician fom Cos who bad
tweed Alenanders father ands mentioned sone ofthe wierarche atthe Hela, *


Page 189, Instance 0, Class: Text
tended to him for the next few days. It seemed unlikely that the king would
ad the mist manted over bis eyes

fd he if et hin

‘rhe pot is beat

ack again |

UL 3836-7)

Slowly, Alexander began wo respond, but when news of the severity ofthe king's
‘wound and even rumors of his desth= reached his other twoope. be
Cstomarily divided his forees when murching into bose tentitory— an
Stnosphere of gloom and despair began to permeate the camp. Despite tir
bie somplaints about the king. they loved him and bis indomitable spit. was
an ambiguous, tense, falylikeflatonship, and with Alexander sppatey
‘on the verge of death, thei love rset the surface.

His men wete also concerned about hemselves. The King di not (nor would
to ever designate a successor, and once again they were sutounded bya ere
and able enemy. Past istry, and an awareness that a tempest Was being just
‘elow the royal level, led his mon to Believe hat without Alexander there Was 8
‘ood chance that hey would perish inthe mids ofthe Datbain, Pane ead

you sean army mustered underarms

ficken with pane

before is spear

This panic

from

Dionysus

(a. 303-5)
‘Wor tat the kins condition had improved was met wit disbelief, and even
Teter of reassurance from the king himsel! was tought to have been forged by
‘is top officers. This was a eling commen oa the erodibility Hat the rank and
file mow associated with information enunating from the highest cic,

(Or necessity and despite is til citical condition, Alexander insisted that be
toe trnsportad downstream to the main camp 0 that his Uoops could beat
‘wines tothe fac that he was il alive. He was in uch fale ate, this Being
jas seven days ater the injury, thatthe vessel following his ship remained at
stance so hat their ous Would not intemupt the sleep necesary for his
‘recuperation, With the dak cleared so tha is troops might have an unobstructed
‘ew of him, Aleanderappeated at camp where the Chena apd the Ravi meet
‘A-ceod gaihored on the shove and began to state atthe ship. Siace he Was
‘modonlss the oops thought that they might be watching a corps, ntl dhe


Page 189, Instance 3, Class: Text
ad the mist manted over bis eyes

fd he if et hin

‘rhe pot is beat

ack again |

UL 3836-7)

Slowly, Alevaner began to respond, but when news ofthe severity ofthe king's
wound, and even rumors ‘of his’ death reached his other troops be
customarily divided his forces when marching io hostile tettry— an
atmosphere of gloom and despair bepan 10 permeate the canp. Despite dit
biter complaints about he King they loved in and bis indontable pit. was
am ambiguous, intense, faily-ike relationship and with Alexander patently
on the verge of death their love sos othe surace

His men wete also concerned about hemselves. The King di not (nor would
he ever) designate a sucessor and once apain they were surrounded by a ieee
and ale enemy. Past histor. ad an awateness that a empest Was beeing jas
Below the royal level, ed his men to believe tat without Alexander there was 3
food chance that they Would perish nthe midst of the barbarian Panic stead.

you sean army mustered underarms

‘icken with panic


Page 189, Instance 4, Class: Text
(Ba, 303-5)

‘Word thatthe king's conn ha improved was met wth disbele,and even a
leer of reassurance fom the hing himself ws tought to have ben forged by
1s tp officers. This was ateling comment onthe tei hat the ank and

‘Ot neceniy and despite his til eral condo, Alexander iss hat be
jst seven days after the injury, tat he vessels lowing his ship remained at
distance 20 that their oar would not inemupt the seep necessary Tor his
view of im, Alsandee appeared at camp where the Chenab and the Ravi met.
‘Aco gated onthe shee and began to ste athe sip. Since he was
‘inl, the oop hough ht they might be washing cope, he


Page 190, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘king raised his hand and waved to them. The cheering crowd extended their
‘ands toward heaven and Alexander
this man
o
nother
than ours
and
or
the
(U1 23.290)
‘Eqemely weak fom his massive blo loss, the king was caso to the shore
fon steer and, at his own insistence, hosted on to hase. He rset his
tent, dismounted, and managed to stumble int his quater. I was an incredible
splay of will power. which earned spontaneous applause and 2 gavland of
flowers from bit woops. any of the King's men sill harbored reservations
bout Alevander’s invincible atu this performance must hae removed thse
oats
‘And yt the day of your deat is near
‘atic isoot we
who ae to blame
but
great god
and
power
Desi
dL 19.408-10)
‘Among his fiends, however, the prospect of Alexander’ death brought Home
the pccriousness of theron station and dew complaints about aking Who
was acting more lke a soldier than a general. These remarks stung Alexander,
‘who “was inte, ecause he Knew that they were ue and tht he bad aid
Fimself open to this ensure. Ad yet his rage in bute an pasion for sly
‘made him like men overcome by any eee form of pleasure and he was not
‘Srong-minded enough wo keep ot of dangers” (6.13).
Cursed courage
ND lo tly


Page 190, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘king raised his hand and waved to them. The cheering crowd extended their
‘ands toward heaven and Alexander


Page 191, Instance 0, Class: Text
(Once again, Alexander's tor Aristde provides a yatdsick by which we can
‘measure the king. The philosopher says that re courage les between ashes.
fd fear” Cowardice and disgrace shouldbe avoided, but o should excessive
fealesnes. The ash man “would be a sort of madman or insesible person if
‘he feued nothing [and)is also thought wo be boastful and only a pretender 19
‘courage... brave ma i. the rash an wishes fo pea: ad oe tates
[ie brave man in situations where he can"

"The vitwous an, Arse claims, “sis own best fein and therefore ought
to lve himvelf beat? He therefore “wishes olive with hill, fr he dos 0
‘with pleasure since the memos of his pas acts ae delightful and his hopes for
‘he ture te good, and therefore pleasant Hap. be will ind Wounds andthe
prospect of death in war painful ad contrary to is nature, bute will ace them
[ocase is vitwous to do 80 and ignabe no a. Someone lacking in nobility
“doesnot seem to be amicably disposed even to himself ocaus here i nothing
‘inhi to love: and be might perhaps. find death move welcome than fe

‘Alexander was infuriated atthe charges of recklessness, but an older Boeotan|
co the expedition leamed of the king's anger over these femensrances and
approach him on the subject Ia his reglonal dialect, the man told the king
“Rlevander, deeds are men's work” (A613). He elaborated an his point by
quoting averse from Asschylus to the effect that suffering was the rie 4 man
{f accomplishment inevitably pid This Hine of thinking. which implied that
leser men would never understand his heroic nature, appeled to Alexander. He
showed mediate approval ofthe senuent and developed close te with the
‘man who expessed it

Far us there can te no design no purpose

‘eter than tht one

toclosein

nd ight with the stength four hands

tele quarters

UL 13505-10)

‘As the king slowly recovered, he woeked his way southward. Other Malian
tees submited to him, a did the Oxydacae, who lived south of the Mall
‘These people excused thmselves for not capitulaing sooner by explaining that
they cherished ffeedom and self-government even more than the others,
“eedom they had preserved inlct frm the days when Dionysts came into
Indi’ until Alexander's time, but if ts pleased Alexande, since the story
‘valle that Alexander oo was born o ago they would accept asap whom
‘Alexander might appoint. pay uibute determined by him, and aso give as many
hostages ashe might quite” (A.6. 142)

"The invading amy encountered sporadic resistance inthe wine of 326325.
In one ofthese atacks Polemy was hit by 4 poisoned azow and came close 10
death himseit. Alexander itis epeted, had dream in which a snake dieeed
‘him toward a plant that cbotaineda cure-** Men were sent foraging about with a


Page 192, Instance 0, Class: Text
description ofthe plan in Alexander's dear. When it was discovered and used,
Prolemy showed signs of recovery. John W Snyder septs that such a pla
exists and contains Rawwoiaserpemin, a Wangulize tat has boon used for
‘ousands of year inthe treatment of poisonous snakebite

Tris reaonable co assume that Alexander and his men availed themselves of
every opportunity to dink heavily duving this atduous campaign. At ane
‘Symposium a drunken Macedonian named Coragus challenged Dicks,
accomplished Athenian boxer. 10 single combat" Dioxippus who was well
Tked by the Ling bu resented by some Macedonians because he was Dot
Soli, scoffed a the bravado but accepted the challenge. On the fllowing day
CCowagus, fully amd, faced Dixippus. who was smeared with oi, caied &
club in hs sght hand and purple cloth in his Tet and wore a paland oa his
oad. The det alte was able to disam Covragus abd would have beaten the
‘an to death if had not ben forthe intervention of the King,

“Alexander was dismayed atthe outcome, "Yor he feared that 4 mockery bad
teen made of the celebrated Macedonian valow” (C9.723), Couriers
tempting to please the king planted golden cup i the boxer’ foom and
publicly acused him of stealing i at another symposium. This affiont was 100
fic forthe famous borer to beur and he commited suicide, bat not before
‘wing «eter tothe king. “Alexandr ws pained by bis death, which he thought
Iicaed resentment er tan retmore on Diorippus’ pa, expecially when the
excessive jubilation of the men jealous of him revealed the faseness of the
‘Sceuston against itn" (C.9.726)"|

“Alexander cominued his descent dawn the Indus until he reached its deta a
Paula (oeat Bahmaabad) in July 325. Nine mots had elapsed siace be
departed from Nicaea on the Jhelum. At Putala be began construction of
hatbor and docks, although he iil leks! Iahorers because the local ruler,
‘who had aleady submitted wo Alexander, bad evacuated te eegion in fea oer
{he King’s intentions. It was known that any sort of resistance to Alexabder
‘would be met with vicious repression, and fear of the invader soon spcad
‘hroughout the epion

You on the stests

You onthe roads

Make way

(ba 68-9)
‘When he king made itclea that everyone would be abet retum safely the vast
majority of people in the aea resumed a normal existence. The Indian cmpsigh
however was a6 Tar says, "unique ints deal record of mere slaughter."

“Alexander sailed dove bah anche of the lds in oder o deere which
‘would be the safer outlet for the fleet, and ulimatly used the western arm 10
‘each the Aabian Sea. His ships, however, Were badly damaged whew they
cocountered severe storms during his fst venture. After secufing some lad
‘guides, and building new ships. they were faced with a previously unknown,


Page 193, Instance 0, Class: Text
phenomenon —idal changes. His naval officers, acustomed to the minimal
Metation ofthe Mediterranean, experienced considerable embaassient while
allemptig to contend with this problem. A one pia the let was left tanded
fas the tide receded: When it returned many of the ships were wecked or
damaged.

“Alle puting nat ver island, Cilata, Alexander sailed to an outlet nt the
seato detemine If the passageway could be used safely. °” Another island farther
fut as sighted, and Alexander decided 10 continue on Wo it. For most other
‘ventures caching the word's edge would have heen a source af oy, but for
‘Alexandr it was more Like a hollow wiumph. This was Ocean, Dut Bot at ts
easternmost pat. which had been his aim

[Neverholiss,Aleander cared out the sacrifices mandated by Ammon for
this special ocesion. He siled out fom the second island into the open sea
‘observe wheter any country stood out act. None was visible, so Alexander
Saughtred two bellowing bull a honor of Poseidon ad cast them into the sea
He the poured batons dew the golden cup alo with the geen bowls in
‘which the wine ws mixed out on tothe waves, and prayed "tat no man afer
‘him might ever pass beyond the hounds of his expedition” (P.66.2).

and another man

‘may shrink ack

Hom likening himself to me

and contending

UL L.186-7)
‘Looking out seross the Arian Sea he may have pondered how striking and
‘memorable hit death would have been in tat Mal fown, and why be ad been
<epaved of such a glorious and ezoic ext

Because

you

(Ba. 210)
‘THE GEDROSIAN DESERT (325 BC)
Disturbed by dhe muliplying problems in his inteligene sjstem. increasing
dlficules i communicaton nd rumors ofthe tsmanagement and corruption
fof the saaps. the king began to sense some loss of coat ovee his immense
“pie During x conversation with Calan, the Indian wise mah reached foray
land shrunken oxhide and placed i onthe ground. When be stepped ono nears
‘owes the hide would immediatly ese up in some other ata, but when be
place is full weight in the mile, the entire pcs fattened out." The moral of


Page 193, Instance 3, Class: Text
phenomenon —idal changes. His naval officers, acustomed to the minimal
Metation ofthe Mediterranean, experienced considerable embaassient while
allemptig to contend with this problem. A one pia the let was left tanded
fas the tide receded: When it returned many of the ships were wecked or
damaged.

“Alle puting nat ver island, Cilata, Alexander sailed to an outlet nt the
seato detemine If the passageway could be used safely. °” Another island farther
fut as sighted, and Alexander decided 10 continue on Wo it. For most other
‘ventures caching the word's edge would have heen a source af oy, but for
‘Alexandr it was more Like a hollow wiumph. This was Ocean, Dut Bot at ts
easternmost pat. which had been his aim

[Neverholiss,Aleander cared out the sacrifices mandated by Ammon for
this special ocesion. He siled out fom the second island into the open sea
‘observe wheter any country stood out act. None was visible, so Alexander
Saughtred two bellowing bull a honor of Poseidon ad cast them into the sea
He the poured batons dew the golden cup alo with the geen bowls in
‘which the wine ws mixed out on tothe waves, and prayed "tat no man afer
‘him might ever pass beyond the hounds of his expedition” (P.66.2).

‘and another man


Page 194, Instance 0, Class: Text
the exercise was to show Alexander that he would gain greater contol over his
empire by concentrating his autovity at is center rather than a i edges.
Prevented from continuing eastward by the fefsal of his Woops, and fel of
loving what he had altcady gained the king decided wo retur othe west.

Before Alexander" attwed at Pala, Craters was onered 10. lead
spproximately half of the oops, including those unfit for combat, trough the
Bolan pass and westward to Carmania, sbjugating any pockets of resistance
log the way Instead of taking this oue himself the king had decid 0 lead
fis sturdiat men to Carmania across dhe har sands of the desert in southern
Gediosa Baluchistan). This toute would enable the king o establish dumps of
food and supply fesh wate to his let, which would sal rom the mouth of the
Indus to the Euphates, thereby linking “India” and Babylonia. Alexander's
sree out inthe open ea were an appl tothe gods forthe sae voyage ofthis
fee.

“Although be asked for divine help, Alexander tok no chances. Th king
personaly “sled down again by the oter faster] mouth. and discovered,
{atti side was easier o navigate” (A.6.202-4), He made arrangements for
the constuction of anther harbor onthe lake which was on the eastern arm, and
[povided a garisoa forthe protection of the cet. He thea fetumed 1 Patiala

“Aian's Indica (chap 20) states tha Alexander was preoccupied vith the
fate of his let from the time tat this idea was conceived. The autor cites
[Newfhus assaying “Alexander had a longing {pshos] to sil out nto the sea
an ound from Inia to Persia, but was apprehensive a the length of the voyage
fd the isk that they Would find land uninhabited oe destitute of toadsteas ot
Inadequtely provided with useful products, o that his whole let might be
acualy destoyed: such a segue o his great achievements Would be serious
Stain on them and would obliterate his good Tarun. Yet is perpetual deste
do something new and extardinary won the day” (20.1-2). Despite the
‘Stocesfl example provided by Seysx, which Alexander surely knew through
Herodous, twas stl a perilous entre.”

‘will earn is om strength

dL 8535)
‘The king was ls in quandary over who would be in command ofthe voyage.
‘There were considerable risks involved, and he needed at animal whose
sesence would convince the silos that they were ot “being sea off without
‘de thought ato manifest danger” 20.3) Alexander and Nears discussed the
undidates, but each in turn, was rejected by Alexander ether beease "hey
‘were ot willing to ik themselves for his sake, or a chickenheaned, or 3
‘asteted by a yeaming [potas Torhome, ad {he} accused each af them of
fret faut" 201) Nearchus then made bis offer o lead theft hist, but
‘Alexander potsied "that he would not allow one of his own fiends to endure
‘ich hanships and incur such danger” 206), Nears, we are tld "id not
sec up for thea season but protect sce usnwntly, cachse Aleewteh well plesset


Page 195, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘with his eagemes, appointed him ami of the ene leet” (20.6-7). Alexander
[ew that hose signed othe leet would be more optimistic about their detail
once i became cleat that they were 10 be led by "the lst person Aleader
‘Would have exposed to an obvious danger unless they were likely 0 come
‘through safe” 20.8. His tops, placing ther ath “in Alexanders incalculable
‘ood fortune in otber ventures. thought tha there Was noting that be might
‘ot both daze and eaty tough (20.1),

“Ain tells us that the prospect of lading 4 lage force intact though
tenitory that had devasiaed troops of illstious predscessors offered an
inesnible le to Alexander that far overshadowed any reservations. His
account seat redence by tat of Sabo, who tll us, op Neaehus' autho.
“that Alexapder conceived an anbiton to ead bis amy through Gedrosia when
te Teared that bath Semiramis and Cyrus had made an expedition agaist the
Indians, and that Semin had tuned back in flight with only twenty people
and Cyrus with seven: and that Aleander thought how grand it would be, whe
hose had met with such revere, if he hime should lead 4 whole vctrious
army safely trough the same ies and regions" (S15..8) lt was eminiscent of
‘Alexander fllowing the traces of Percus and Heracles into the Libyan Desert.

Leaving fiom the vicinty of modern Karachi and waveling westvad
‘Alexander eosed the boundary between “dia” and ean and in a murderous
campaign, subdved tbe Orie, who had refused wo submit wo him” He
"ppoiied Apollophanes. a Macedonia, governs ofthe Oretan etry and of
‘Gedtosia the sarap be was about to enter. Leonnatus was assigned the dual
tasks of ‘maining security amoog the Oretue and completing the
fsublishment of another Aletandia. Alexander then marched. south ino
Gedrosa and prepared himself fr the fateful tek actows the egion now known
the Maran

‘The southwest monsooa delay his lees ailing, and while Alexander began
‘is mage from Patiala in miu, his chips did nt get under way nt te
October, When became cea tht there would be no rendezvous with Neatchs
‘long the coust ofthe Makran, Alexander could only speculate abut what had
‘happened tothe vessels. He dd nt tarry for long ocean area had been stripped
‘ofl avlable provisions. Never dltory, Alexander elected o lead his ps
fiom hau to Turat, a 150-mile march through weacheroustetory that Was
lean in supplies and virally wateres. Ths leg was further complicit bythe
bearable het.

Predictably the march tumed out be «nightmare. Arian describes it

[The scorching bea and want of water destroyed a great part ofthe amy

the depth of the sand ands beat buming asi Was, and in most eases

‘hist aswell nought about their destruction, as they even came actos

igh hls of deep sand. not beaten down, but leting them sink in as they

Stepped on i lke liuid mud oF untodden snow..the lengths of the

‘matches. did most to distess the amy.-if the [aight] march was

‘longed by its length into te day, and hey were caught til marching


Page 196, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘suffering...some were left behind on the roads from sickness, others from

‘weariness o eat of. thitst.few out of many were saved: moet of therm

‘were Tot in the sand ike mn who fll verbo at ea

(6244-253)

‘Mules, creatures deur to Dionysus, and horses were kil and eaten without
uorization by soldiers who falsely claimed that the beasts had peishod fom
‘hist or fatigue. Aleander was aware of this, but decided it was prudent 1
gore it under the citcumstances. The soya seals on supplies seat the coast
‘Were broken open by "the guards themselves who] used the food, sharing it
fot among tose suffering most fom hunger” (A623. Alexander chose 19
‘gore this a well Poisonous snakes presented constant teat “Tor herbs a
‘on the sans, and beneath these hes he snakes ad crept unnoticed: and
they killed every person they stuck" (S152.

without

ing sen

Ba. 840)

‘A tagic scene was played aut when the amy rested inthe vicinity of a torent
‘bd. which stil contained trace of water that had ckled down frm the ils
‘The amy, forced inland by the tein remained unaware ofthe fain that beat
agains the coastal sie ofthe bills, nscen and unheard. The resultant lash fo
‘ted away a sizable umber of women and chile, pack animal, wagons,
land the King's personal gear. Soler grabbed what weapons they coulda) their
hands on and esaped with ret dict.

‘When water was found, Alexander would Kep his woops at a discret distance
so tat they would ot kill themselves though overindalgence (as some had). of
polite the water by rushing ita iin fll dese, The common probleay wis a
patched palate, and bere Arian recounts sory conceming the king that be
onsiers tobe amoag te noblest ls tld shout his hao:

Alexander himself was ithe vip ofthis and it was with much difficulty

‘hat he prised i leading the Way on foot, 50 tht the rest ofthe tops

‘should. "bear their suferings more easily. wih all sharing the dsres

quay. At this moment some (mea)cllced [a litle watr)and

Inuied to Alexander folig that they were binging something of great

value, and, when they came near, poured the wate ito a telnet and

‘offered itt the king” He ook and thanked them, but tbe poured tout in

the sight of everyone: and a this action the army was so much hewrtened

‘ar you would have guessed Ua all ha dunk what Alexander bad poured

any

(6261-3)


Page 196, Instance 2, Class: Text
ten they were tonmented in the grip of heat combined with coals

thst... Nov was i easy any longer to big along the woops who were

sulle. -some were left behind onthe roads from scknes, oles 0

‘weariness o eat of. thitst.few out of many were saved: moet of therm

‘were Tot in the sand ike mn who fll verbo at ea

(6244-253)

‘Mules, creatures deur to Dionysus, and horses were kil and eaten without
uorization by soldiers who falsely claimed that the beasts had peishod fom
‘hist or fatigue. Aleander was aware of this, but decided it was prudent 1
gore it under the citcumstances. The soya seals on supplies seat the coast
‘Were broken open by "the guards themselves who] used the food, sharing it
fot among tose suffering most fom hunger” (A623. Alexander chose 19
‘gore this a well Poisonous snakes presented constant teat “Tor herbs a
‘on the sans, and beneath these hes he snakes ad crept unnoticed: and
they killed every person they stuck" (S152.


Page 197, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The army wended its way dhrough the Gedrosian Desert for 60 days. At one
point a sandsonn erased any recognizable landmarks. and the guides began to
Tead everyone father inland. Alexander himself seized the iniatve and, with 3
small detachment of horsemen, was able to lcate the cousin. They found
Some fresh water as well ad fra wesk te amy was able to travel song the
‘coat, digging wells and enjoying an ample supply of water. The guides then
picked up the wal tothe Gadosian capital, Para. The betaggled survivors of
{his hornbe ordeal finally groped their way toward an inbbited land and reli,

"The loses Were staggering Arian comments hat Alexander and his amy
“seed move ete than dai ll the rest of his expedition (Und. 26.1.1 has
‘ben easonably estimated that Aletande began this ourney with 60,000-70,000
soir, af whom 15,000 survived.” The Companion Cavalry. the king's corps
‘Pale, was reduced fom 1.700 t0 1,000 men. When ac also takes into
‘consideration the subsandal number of non-combstat casaies, this Was,
‘without question, "a debdcle ‘of major proportion and without parallel in
‘Alexander's caret How cap this wapic mistake be explained?

Badian has demolished the arguments of apologists who depict Alexander as
the victim of unfresen circumstances in feasible operation, Kis his assertion
thar Alexander was well aware of what he was getting himself ino, but
‘nevertheless remained determined to outdo te semimythial Babylonian quee,
‘Semiramis, and Cyrus. Badin wet:

Inition of heres—Achilles, Heracles, Dionysus—had always been put

of Alexander's porsonalit. However tana! and calculating in is

‘methods, he was mystic in is ulate mosivaton. But this tne there

‘may be more 10 be aed. His defeat by his own men had shaken his

Supernatural standing among men, and (worse sill) his own belie in

‘himself and his divine protection. What had happened since—dhe all but

fatal wound that had restored is solders Tove and loyalty the conquest of

southem Toda, which.was.(an] outstanding. achievement bad

helped him fecover. Bot something more staking was needed: a

countervailing tiumph io ease the memory. Nate and myth povided the

challenge.”

“The king emerge from the Godrosian Desert without lsring wheter ono his
Moet had survive its joumey. By this time e was willing to belive the Worst
‘Met ar oubled about the feet as he was about his debated land forces,
‘Alexander was beginning to believe tht his lest effrs were ting into an
epic folly. Tnsead of easing his huniiaion at the Beas, this ill-conceived
pothos could permanently sully "his. reputation" Nearhus remained
‘communicado, andthe silence galvanized Alexander's insecuiis

Tn reality, thre were times during the let's voyage when the king's ansiety
‘might have proved to be prophetic. AC one point Onesicritus attempted 1
fetuade Nearchus to tke & shortcut across a "bay" inorder to save tne”
‘Newrhus rejected the suggestion on the grounds that they were under explicit


Page 198, Instance 0, Class: Text
rede eu eraesteeredianaliae ieterianeeel ertaarda nana earn tere
the adil ha followed the royal steersman’s advice, the fleet might have
Sd wp hopeless whe unkowingly Towing the cast ofthe Aan
Alou ‘he too was plagued by grave problems, Newrchus managed to
tts costco whalebone, He aol ot his enum wih convey of
‘sles, which submerge when Nears and his hen tamed hi ship lord
them, sled with i our and tou lo at cy. Neath pred
{hat hie ten applaud the maneuver and pra thir Waders courage and
CARMANIA @25232480)

‘As soon ase raced Par, the Gedovan copa, Alexander planned 10
diiharge Aplloptes de peovac's een appoe sap fling 0
follow bis ode fo supply the provisions ht ever ave in he desert. Tis
Intention othe prt ofthe King ignored te fact tht Apollophaes me would
‘ive found next oposite ot Alexander ani tops ding thei
jjurey. Alrander war ebviouly aniou to fix the rexponiity for Bi on
Calamity on someooe es. The ing soon ued however, ht he Orie hal
‘Sr and tht Apologies ad bon tiled wie suring to suppres he
Insane. Kwa Letnats who se Aletander ews of bath Apolohanes
‘hice sap had len"

"the king wa al Str hy the events nthe dese. Plath lls ws hat
Abulites and Oxathes father an sn) te stp of Sina and Paritacene,
‘See among thone who evenly faced the kig's wrath Aules brought
‘Aetandr 3.00 talents in coin instead of suppl, apparent asuning tht
‘utver be could stply eerie woul oie wee othe ing, Aleta
‘dt money howe fosme osc which ignored ian asked he aap he
‘ow andeeood what good money” was to him and hn men Abul was
Inprscned and eect, Hiss tasted by the Hag hes, Presumably
Sober bat infured the Lig grabbed a Macedon phe nd an Oxales
‘hough usta he ad slain lets

TieHanitoncauins gant resting hs account an relying exclusively
{Tare pln ut cman hat Alxuder was sl ter} ts eclng
2 veapeoa for due for wich he wat ley ferponsle and wich
‘eto damaged his eputation fr inn”

Tn Camania Alexander was ret by Stasi andthe Fenian Parasmans
‘Tuy Inout puck animals and cael, which could have made cecal


Page 198, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘orders to explore the coast. This “bay” turned out to be the Persian Gulf, and if
{he adil had followed the royal sccraman's ac, ae let might have
Sd wp hopeless whe unkowingly Towing the cast ofthe Aan
Alou ‘he too was plagued by grave problems, Newrchus managed to
Herooten fashion be wot of aboriginal men wh ate gonad fish a ived in
tts costco whalebone, He aol ot his enum wih convey of
‘sles, which submerge when Nears and his hen tamed hi ship lord
them, sled with i our and tou lo at cy. Neath pred
{hat hie ten applaud the maneuver and pra thir Waders courage and


Page 199, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘ought the oter half ofthe army dough visually intact, and recounted the
<ouals of an upising in Drangiana with which he had sccesflly deal.

‘News fron elsewhere’ was far more disturbing. Charges of large-scale
extortion, the misweatment of subjects, and een the plundering of tombs by his
‘own officials came tthe King’s atten, Ith been more tha to Yeas Since
‘Alexander had crossed the Hinds Kus ito “India,” and those who knew his
‘naepid nature might have assumed that he ad perished —o would soon perish
“hetoically against some obscure and remote enemy. Flagrant sbuses were
‘widespread, and’ some of tbe king's highest officials wore accused of
‘subordination and embezzlement.

arpals the Royal Treaster maintained private amy and dew fey fom
Alexander's monies” Mlnsyncrati in many texpects he imported Pytbonce
facie Athenian courtesan and kept her in regal splendor at Babylon. When
She died, Harpaus dedicated a tmple o he inthe name of Pytonice Apesite
thar was sad to have cost him (or rater the ing) 200 talents. Glycers
(Sugar), Pyhonice'ssucessor, was ensconced at Tarsus, whete the Treasurer
Spout mast of his tne ad vstes were veguzed to pesform proskyess in het
[resence. Harpals dd provide grain foe Atens ding several yeats of severe
Famine (330-526), and was grand Athenian citizenship a geste of the
ciy's gratitude. At Alexander's suggestion, Harpalus wansplaned Gok Nora
Iino Babylon's Hanging Gardens. The plants and shrubs flourished in the eoyal
{ates with one notable exception —iy!™™

‘Rumors of Harpals’ behavior reached Aleander in “India bat dere was
Iie he could do bout it un hisretumn tothe West.” Before the end of 324, 4
saty pla. Python's gen, was pu on at Alexander's cout It prayed Harpales
‘sing the Mag to conjure up the spit of Pytbonce.” Some time would elapse
‘efor the king would lar the fl scope of his Treasurer's actives, and by
‘hen t would he impossible o grat his fiend yet anther pardon.

‘Repos of misconduct Were rampant. Alexander, Astian tll ws, “is sid at
this tme to have grown quicker to give credit to accusations, as if they were
selabe in all cumstances, and to punish severely those who were convicted
ven of slight Fults on dhe ground that inthe same fame of mid they might
‘comm grave cimes"(7-43).

Bacchi violence

spreads

(a. 798-79)
During the next few months six saps were deposed. All but one (Apollo
hanes, who had already died in bate) were executed. Several bighranking
fiers Were summoned to dhe king's cout, only to meet the same fates what
tas een described by Badian ay eign of ero.” Acconing to Amin the
[King ad become oxter harsher)" He Was pow capable of the same kind
of dssimulation a his father. He masked his anger aginst tases the sap of


Page 200, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Carmania, who was suspected of entertaining notions of revolt. When the
conditions were favorable however, Alexander exceuted hi.”

Descend from Olympus loud

Come whit your wand of gold

and quell with death

this beast of bod

‘whose violence

abuses ma

and

aod

(a. 383-5)

He summoned officers from Media. Among them were the same men who bad
‘ben involved inthe assassination of Panmenio™ ‘The most prominent
‘ommanders were the Thracian Sitalces and Cleaner, the brother ofthe sue
‘Coenus who had apposed Alexander tthe Beas. They were deed to have most
oftheir woops accompany them. The Medians, fllowing close behind, indicted
{hese generals with charges that wore subseqbealy conoborated by Macedonian
soliets (aay of whom til sented the way in Which Pamenio met his fate)
‘The question was whether the king would, under the preset cicumstnces,
ran irmunity to men who had done him such a special service in disposing of
‘Puen, Sitlces and Cleander, however, were executed "to make the ees]

ear tha they commited the like crimes they wou suffer the ike fate”.
exay

tis puposes are fietce

Tikes ton

‘who when he has given way

to is own great suength

and his haugyspint

oes among the Mocks of men

tordevour them

ur 2440-3)

‘A certain Heracon was among the generals fom Media who stood accused. He
‘as inally, we ae tol, cleared of charges tithe bad abused the Median
populace. He would not, however ike many oles previowly accused and
[Sequited of serious ees an the expedition, survive Alexander. Heracon Was
Inter attested for pillaging the temple a Sica, convicted of that charge, and
Killed Ifthe allegation conceming the desceaion of the temple Was Val it
‘meant that this man had learned nothing a all fom the fate of those eecenily
‘convicted of the very same erme and excited. Ignorance of this magnitude
‘would make him a dense man indeed,


Page 201, Instance 0, Class: Text
(eee destuoyed pity

an thee toot

intim

ay

same

Ur 2aes)

CCurius, who says thatthe fouth of the generals fom Media was named
‘Agathen also tls us that 600 of the 6000 togps accompanying the oes
‘were executed a accesories in a eral decimation” He adds that afer
‘camining tbe evidence (which included the rape by Cleander of igi from a
stort fly), Alexander pointed out thatthe prosecutors had overloaked
the most portant ofall charges, "namely the defendants” assumption that be
[Alexander] would hot survive. Fo, be sid, men wishing or believing that be
‘would safely return from India would never have ventured upon such ries”
o.7,

‘A number of the prominent officals killed during this cycle of bel
‘punishments clearly served as scapegoats for the king's debdee in dhe desert.
‘Another motivation forthe purge, Badan suggests, may have been feat” The
events atthe Beas River had conjured up an ominous specter in Alexander's
‘hind, dat of bis own officers and men finding come ground against hin,
Could it have ben merely coincidental regress ofthe nature and validity of
the charges agunat Ceandey, that once the king et foot in habiable lan,
(Coenus brother was called cou subsequenly declared guilty, and executed?
‘The conduct of bis Inperal Treasure may als have led Alexander to suspect
that there was a much lager plot foo, since Conus, Cleander,and Harps ll
‘elonged to royal family originating inthe Macedonian “ou-kingdom” of
limon

‘Some ofthe king's concerns, however, were more tal than imagined. During
‘Alexander's absence several of is satzaps, perhaps looking to protect themselves
fiom ove another should the King de, had been enlarging the ranks af the
‘mercenary solders at thee disposi. Another dat posed by hte sors bad
‘cently Become clear to the King when the report reached hi that Philip, his
Satiap fr the nonivesterm portion of his Indian conquests, had been ile by
his twn mercenaies”” "While sill in Carmania abd reflecting over the
Implications ofall this, he decided to onder his straps to dismiss all oftheir
‘mercenaries. This setion, which removed any immediate tveat 10 the king
Inevitably eased grievous problems thoughout the empise

Eery major source refers toa spectacular Dione festival in Carman, =a
land producing vines "thick with large pres” ($152.14), to celebrate the
survival of those who emerged fiom thevdesert, Putch says atthe whole
“army participated in what is described as:


Page 202, Instance 0, Class: Text
IA] kind of Bacchanaian procession. Alexander himself feasted

omtnully, day and night cclining with his Companions om dis built

‘pon a high an! conspicuous rectangular platform [oymeleman al, foe

example cne of Dionysus inthe theater) the whale strc being slowly

‘dawn along by eight hoses. Imumerale waggons followed the royal

‘abl, some of them coveted with purple or embroidered canopies, others

‘Shaded bythe boughs of tees, which were constantly Kept fesh and green

these vehicles cared the est of Alexander's ices, allo them exowned

‘wih Rowers and drinking wine. Not single helt, silo seat was 0

‘bese, but along the whole lin ofthe march he soldiers Kept dipping thei

cups, inking horns or earthenware goblets ato huge casks and mising”

bowls and toasting one another, some deiaking as they marched, others

spravle by the Wajside, while the whole landscape resounded with the

‘sic of pipes and Mes, with harping and singing andthe exes of women

‘ape with the divine frenzy. Not only drinking Dual the otber forms

‘cchanalian Hcense attended this suagaling and dsodely march, 35

‘hough the ga [Dionysus] himself were preset to lad the revels

12-6)

Breaking off

tiny fragment

srthat ther

‘which suerounds

the world

te molded

from i

dummy

Dionysus

a. 202-4)

Avian beloved this ss than‘ateriag soy oe urlible" Cutis thought
‘quite credibe ut reprehensible. A thousand sober men, he conjectured, "could
‘have capued this group on its iumphal marc, weighed down at was fom
seven days of driaking” (9-10.27). The somber Roman historian maralizes that
Fowtune “lots fame and a price 10 things. and she tured even tis piece of
isgracefal soldering ino a plovous achievement! (9.1028). A Roman am
‘ho soem to imply, would never have heen guilty of such lak of discipine. In
discussing Cantus” account, Badian ackoowledges his embllstents, but say
that “the facts should be accepted, especially in view of Alexander's life-long
Tove-ateelaionsip with Dinysus™

‘Ain will amit nly tat Alexander scified ingratitude Yor his conquest
of India and is amy’ safe wait through Gadosia si). hat he conducted
‘usical and thle games, and that be enolled Peucestas as an atonal
‘bodysuard” (6.28.3), Peucesias was honored for his valoe against the Mallans on


Page 202, Instance 1, Class: Text
Avian beloved this ss than‘ateriag soy oe urlible" Cutis thought
‘quite credibe ut reprehensible. A thousand sober men, he conjectured, "could
‘have capued this group on its iumphal marc, weighed down at was fom
seven days of driaking” (9-10.27). The somber Roman historian maralizes that
Fowtune “lots fame and a price 10 things. and she tured even tis piece of
isgracefal soldering ino a plovous achievement! (9.1028). A Roman am
‘ho soem to imply, would never have heen guilty of such lak of discipine. In
discussing Cantus” account, Badian ackoowledges his embllstents, but say
that “the facts should be accepted, especially in view of Alexander's life-long
Tove-ateelaionsip with Dinysus™

‘Ain will amit nly tat Alexander scified ingratitude Yor his conquest
of India and is amy’ safe wait through Gadosia si). hat he conducted
‘usical and thle games, and that be enolled Peucestas as an atonal
‘odyguatd” (628-3). Peuesas was honored for is vale agaist the Malian on


Page 202, Instance 2, Class: Text
IA] kind of Bacchanaian procession. Alexander himself feasted
omtnully, day and night cclining with his Companions om dis built
‘pon a high an! conspicuous rectangular platform [oymeleman al, foe
example cne of Dionysus inthe theater) the whale strc being slowly
‘dawn along by eight hoses. Imumerale waggons followed the royal
‘abl, some of them coveted with purple or embroidered canopies, others
‘Shaded bythe boughs of tees, which were constantly Kept fesh and green
these vehicles cared the est of Alexander's ices, allo them exowned
‘wih Rowers and drinking wine. Not single helt, silo seat was 0
‘bese, but along the whole lin ofthe march he soldiers Kept dipping thei
cups, inking horns or earthenware goblets ato huge casks and mising”
bowls and toasting one another, some deiaking as they marched, others
spravle by the Wajside, while the whole landscape resounded with the
‘sic of pipes and Mes, with harping and singing andthe exes of women
‘ape with the divine frenzy. Not only drinking Dual the otber forms
‘cchanalian Hcense attended this suagaling and dsodely march, 35
‘hough the ga [Dionysus] himself were preset to lad the revels

12-6)
Breaking off


Page 203, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Alexander's behalf. The king was so grateful that he increased the traditional
‘number of bay guards fom seven 1o eight to accommodate him." a this way
Peucestisjomed the ranks of some of the king’ favorites, which included
‘Leoneatus, Hephaesio, Lysimachus, Pedicas, and Polen

‘When Aletander ad all but despaied ofthe ct his admis fnlly appeared
‘on the scene, but under cicunstances of mistaken Mentity and recognition that
‘ead lia Homeric epi with Neatchus asthe hor. Neafchus feached the ae
‘ofthe Persian Gulf ner the Strait of Hormuz around December 325, beached his
Ships, and set ut on fot to find his King. Understandably pessimistic after his
experience inthe Makan, Alexande at fist thought hat the nes of Netchus
Sppearance was «fale rumor and aes the strap responsible for ciclating
fallacious reports. The king's scouts actually passed right by Nears and bis
‘eaeling companions. They assumed that these mel of whom were Basle,
‘Wizened, and in, were vgrans.

‘When Nearchut and. Alexander were reunited, the king inilly filed to
secoghize his. admiza"” Once Neachus' identity bad. been established
‘Alexander jumped othe conclusion ta these rgamutfins were the sole survivors
ofthe journey. and that theres of his naval expedition had bee lost. Alexander
“aid no fel so much plessue atthe safe aval of Neatchs, as pain atthe loss
ofall his force” (AJnd.352). He wept for what peated to be an "uter
“isso.” gave Nears his ight hand, and led him outside, out feast ofthe
fothers to hear the grim deta. When Neatchus zevaled thatthe fleet was
‘cally inact and being repaied at that very moment the king Wept apa, is
‘ime fr joy. AS mentioned exer, Alexande's Fea, acconding wo Artin (ase
‘on Nearch), was that such a segue [as the destruction of ane eet] this
tet acieverents woud be a setious stain on ther [in] and would obliterate
1s good forune" (A Ind. 202).

Teseemed too good 10 be wus. Alexander swore “by Zeus ofthe Greeks and
the Libyan Ammon tat he relly rejoiced more tthe news than at baving come
‘sconquerr though ll Asi, snce the dss he had fl the suposed oss
ofthe Meet actualy balanced al is ther good fortune” (Au. 35.8) Sactiices
ingratitude forthe safe return of the expedition were offeed in honor of Zeus
the Saviour, Heracles, pollo the Avert of Evi Poseidon, and al of the other
sea gous."

He is mocking me

(a. 508)
“The admin was showered with flowers and ribbons in a festive procession, and
ferwurd Alexander informed im that someone else would have to take the
fleet to Susa since be efsed to et his fiend ean such ks again. Neachs
‘esponded by saying that he would ofcourse, obey any odes from Alexander,
‘but that ifthe king was inclined to rant him a Taver, be could do s0 by
‘permit him wo complete his mission ia guiding the Met wo Susa. "Lett not be
eid that Sou entrusted xe with the dificult and desperate work. but that the easy


Page 204, Instance 0, Class: Text
(aak, with Grane sume tp follow, was token wwey and pat into another's hands”
(lind.36.6) The king appreciated his argument and teluctanly complied with
the equest Neurchs was escorted to he eoast ad st sil once gain,

‘During celebation held this ime, after Alexander “bad drunk well (P67
4, he Went to Walch some singing and dancing competitions” The eunuch
Bagoas, a favorit of the king's ase had been of Dans I, was awarded fist,
‘ize inthe dance segment. Glande, and wearing his victors crown as well as
fis costume, Bagous took a seat of honor next to the King. The Macedonians
rupted ito spontancous applause and uged the King to bestow a kiss upoa the
‘wimet. Alexander wrapped his ams coud Bagoss and ised bi, to the tet
‘eight of his ellow celebrant nthe mide ofthe revelry everyone was able for
the moment to escape the memary of those thousands of mon left inthe desert.
‘The aft of Dionysus had the power to uansform the past ito a wleable
secollection,

the gladness

of

the

ripe

a. 423)
“The Makran had taken its tollon Alexander, While he was able to create the illusion
that this disaser was a victory he realty ofthe experience had been bumed
indelibly int in and now cootibuted othe way in which be saw bins. Too
fim toe faced squarely. the anxiety it engendered surfaced in other ways.
Peter Green offers a subd analysis of the mature of the change tat had taken
place in Alexander:

[The man who burnt Persepolis was also the boy who had desuoyed

‘Thebes. From the very bevining his ambition had been insatiable, and

‘murderous when thwarted. Buin any consideration of is ltr yeas, he

ombiaed effects of unbwoken victories, unpaaleled. wealth power

Shsolute and unchallenged, continual het physial ses, and incipient

kobolis cannot be lighly set asde- Abstemious as 4 bos. be now

‘egulaly drank to excess. Nor was it political pressure alone Which now

‘tated the king's actions, but bis own inessingly dominant and

‘uncontrollable megalomaia "

[Neglect of Dionysus in his erie years and itermiteatly ieveret toward
‘him ltr on, Alexander had come to appecite the Way in which the god might
‘be used to underscore the magnte of his own accomplishments. This not
support the claims of some modern scholars hit the King saw bnwsell a 4 nex
Dionysus" Such contentions defy both the sources and the man's slf-
‘conception, Alexander seems to have tested the gad in very much the sue
Fashion as he weated any of his undedigs a «useful pawa in he achievement


Page 204, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘task, with fame sure to follow, was taken away and put into another's hands”
(lind.36.6) The king appreciated his argument and teluctanly complied with
the equest Neurchs was escorted to he eoast ad st sil once gain,

‘During celebation held this ime, after Alexander “bad drunk well (P67
4, he Went to Walch some singing and dancing competitions” The eunuch
Bagoas, a favorit of the king's ase had been of Dans I, was awarded fist,
‘ize inthe dance segment. Glande, and wearing his victors crown as well as
fis costume, Bagous took a seat of honor next to the King. The Macedonians
rupted ito spontancous applause and uged the King to bestow a kiss upoa the
‘wimet. Alexander wrapped his ams coud Bagoss and ised bi, to the tet
‘eight of his ellow celebrant nthe mide ofthe revelry everyone was able for
the moment to escape the memary of those thousands of mon left inthe desert.
‘The aft of Dionysus had the power to uansform the past ito a wleable
secollection,


Page 205, Instance 0, Class: Text
bis ov objecives. war concer of ht tha the youngest of he
‘Olympians, conscived by 4 mal and insecure in is divinity, could be
‘hopeakaly vicious to morals who ested hi Yt heroes had Hee known fo
fel the sng ofthis nile ensmny agaist whom courage and wil ofthe sot
‘Aletander had dsplajed wet of itl ava

Stow

arunstatable

‘height ofthe gus

Irpunaes

tum

P

feed in

i

pide

the

vegas

te

ma

“a 882-7)

ven Bont wat lintel noted in the Regs trap purge rss, who
‘eur ad to bes descendant of Cyr ha waned the satay of Pes whe
‘Alexandr was in nd” "by appintmen of Aland, tba ef
dha be wns Be ight ponon, ef ahcoce of any oer gover, keep he
Pesan in nds fr Alexander” (A292) Cattell that Osings bors
{te Lig and it entourage wih handsome ins ncladng “bends of hones,
‘Saris timed wih ber and gold. fine Jewels heavy gold vas, purple
ments nd 3000 tal of ver cin (1020, Bu tat he egleed fo
{Rcude Raposo hs pesenogs. When is was pointed ou tothe self-made
‘Sp, te sivered "ar be pad hi expects tobe Lig’ nd ot ie
‘whores and tha vat ote Praneestom to vegan a men awe who
‘ilove themsciveso he sexually ued a women (10.126) Bago expended
by aligning Onsines whenever the opportunity presented ise He even
‘lhe hat his enigatorha emoved S000 god lent on tet
Cyne

"Atian sates that Orsines was acused of ‘plundering temples, rifling ancient
tom and pating Pens wo death uj fair Man of ages
{Mr ine We can never be ste whee hs own wrongdoings, Calum on
at of ago, orthe king's alarm at Orie’ slconfdence cased the a 0
FShanged: Perhaps al te cements contd.


Page 205, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘Even Bagous was ultimately involved in the king's satrupal purge, Orsines, who
‘eur ad to bes descendant of Cyr ha waned the satay of Pes whe
‘Alexandr was in nd” "by appintmen of Aland, tba ef
dha be wns Be ight ponon, ef ahcoce of any oer gover, keep he
Persian ore or Altar” (8.6.20. Cris lls that Orsines ono
{te Lig and it entourage wih handsome ins ncladng “bends of hones,
‘Saris timed wih ber and gold. fine Jewels heavy gold vas, purple
ments nd 3000 tal of ver cin (1020, Bu tat he egleed fo
‘Sp, te sivered "ar be pad hi expects tobe Lig’ nd ot ie
‘whores and tha vat ote Praneestom to vegan a men awe who
‘lowed ihoeter oe seul ued se women (10126) Ragone spond
by aligning Onsines whenever the opportunity presented ise He even
‘lhe hat his enigatorha emoved S000 god lent on tet
Cyne

"Atian sates that Orsines was acused of ‘plundering temples, rifling ancient
at of ago, orthe king's alarm at Orie’ slconfdence cased the a 0
FShanged: Perhaps al te cements contd.


Page 205, Instance 4, Class: Text
‘of his own objectives. It was no concem of his that the youngest of the
‘Olympians, conceived by & metal and insecure in his divinity, could be
‘unspeakably vicious to mortals who resis him. Ye, heroes had been knowa 1
feo the sting of his invisible enemy against whom courage and will a the sot
‘Alexander ha displayed were of ite wal


Page 206, Instance 0, Class: Text
them
a
un 18247)
Aisiobuls tells us tht even before he had entered he stapy of Peis the king
‘na decided to tum over to Pecesas.""Peucetas was oot promoted to str
jase Because he had saved the King's Lf. It was also in fecognition of the
feubusiasm with which he had adopted Persian customs. In his new role
Pevcetss wore Persian dress and communicated in the native language,
something that even the king hinself was apparenly unable to do. His
illness to adapt so completly was compatble wih the king's itenons
and may have also made hit more palatable tothe Persians. I did nat, we may
Strib, i all tht well with oer Macedonians
PERSIS 324 BC)

Alexandr avd in Penis eal in 324. Ashe entered, he observed the royal
custom of dstibuting money tothe women of the province." Tough this act
‘he honored the role tat wonen were said to hve payed inthe convoidation of
(Cyrus the Great's monarchy. and served nie tht be atnded oreinforce his
Sage asthe legitimate Persian monarch, The King’s dsappearace into “Iodla”
and prouaciod absence had encouraged eeellion and deeiction of dy. Now
‘mows than ever, twas nocesay to conice his ann subjects that his Greek
speaking king was not an ephemeral phenomenon,

"The Asai flavor of Alexander's cout hecame more distinct as he waved
tetween tbe ancestal capitals of the empire dutig the next year and hal.
Petsian ostenation, which was perverse by Greek standards ad air had Boe
te object ofthe king's own sarcasm, became commonplace." Alexander. tothe
dismay of his soldiers, routinely wore a Pesian whitestiped tunic and dadem
to complement the traditonal Macedonian dies, His rand eneainments,
‘which were in keeping withthe image he wished o project seem to have fed his
‘megalomaniacal tendencies.

"The accomplishments ofthe king's Indian expedition were now celebrated 3s
superior o these of Dionysus, Alenander enjoyed this favorable comparison 10
{he go He also spprealy delighted in ppeating as ane ofthe gods. Ephippus.
an eyewimess, says that the king had en to dessing in the charatssic
Costumes of vais divinities and then playing the appopeate fle. He wae:

Alexander also wore the stred vestments this dinner pate, atone time

‘puting onthe purple robe of Amnon and thin slippers and oens us ike

the god's, at another time the costume of Artemis, which he often Wore

ever ia his chaiet, wearing the Persian gab and showing above the


Page 207, Instance 0, Class: Text
shoulders the bow and huning-spear of the goddess, hilt sti other times

‘he was garbed in the costume of Hermes...on social occasions he woe he

‘Winged sandals and beoad-bvimmed hai on his head. and cared the

cudceus in his hand: yet often, again, he bore the ons skin ad lain

Imitation of Heracles.
Alexander’ thoughts were never fr fom the slopes of Olympus, ade ses
{o have welcomed this typeof veut fom the tedium of aministaton. At pa.
‘hecould masquerade ashis own divine father, launt he atibutes ofan inp
ancestor, of even if he chose 1, parade inthe sacred atte of Apollo's sister
‘Anes

Fist

Jounust

dress yourself

in women's lathes

(a. 821)

He coud imagine hse as Hermes, the messenger ofthe gods, who was switer
‘han all ofthe oes and if the situation required, ivisble Ie was, of couse,
this very same dit who had shepherded young Dionysus t safety and, =
ychopompus, escorted dead souls dow to he nether rl

ete Tam

dtesed in the costume

ofthe god

prepared

rs

(a. 180)

Unintentional the king now bore a greater resemblance 19 Dionysus than 10
any ofthe other Olympians he had elected to inate. In ean Alexander Wasa
exotic foreigner wo had appeared out of distant land and established his
‘scendancy trough might and magic. He came and Wea with tring api.
Teaving countless victims stewn in his pth. Loyal subjects were rewarded
exusvapuntly, and enemies punished with meccilss seventy. Attentive and
‘courteous toward women, Alexander eamed their devotion though his
‘Consideration and benevolence Like Dionus, he too seems wo have made plans
forhis own mothers apoteoss

You do not naw

the lint of your strength

"You do not know whi yu do


Page 208, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘who you ate
a 306)
‘The king moved in and out of bis toes with mercurial aloofness, exbibiing &
‘metamorphic quality that was distinctly Dionysae. Furthermore. in his last few
ests could be sen garanded and flushed with wine more frequently than in
le days of gory
possesed
ty
Dionysus
a 119)
CYRUS TOMB @248C)
Early in 326 the king discovered firsthand tht the tomb of Cyrus the Great at
Pasargada had hoea ransacked and rescaled by is violators. Cyrus! corpse
‘was didged during what tamed out to e futile sterpts o remove his golden
Sarcophagus ftom te tomb. The dead king's hones wete lft unceremoniously
‘teed aout the loot
“Alexander. who held Cyeus in high esteem, was shaken by the discovery of
this splition. Aristobulue was ordered fo rum the salvageable pars of the
‘ody tothe sarcophagus, restore the tomb, wall up. ase the royal seal in
clay atthe entrance. Alexander had the Persian isciption on tet copied i
‘Grek ete below the orignal. tread. “O man, whoever you ae and wherever
you come ftom, for T know you will com. Tam Cyrus wo won the Pesians
{ei empire. Do not therefore grudge me this tle cart tha covers my body.
‘These words made a deep impeession on Aletande, since they eeminded him of
‘he uncertainty and mutability of mortal fe" (P6945).
‘They humble us with death
that we remember
‘what we ate
‘who ae not go
bates
(a. 1002-3)
‘The king was determined to punish those involved in this ourage, but the
{tesrogation and ore ofthe Map (who were responsible far afeguading the
{oa fale produce any telah information. Iwas at this pot that Bagoas
ized the oppomunity to undo the man who had teaed him with conten.
‘Accouding ta Curtis, he bed witnesses to swe tht Orsines had played a Oe
in te desecration." Alexander belived the accustons and ad the sell-
sppoined savap. together with Polymachus, 4 Macedonian fom Pell.


Page 209, Instance 0, Class: Text
executed for plundering the tomb. Cutis emarks i this context that “Alexander
‘hl begun to be quik to order summary exeetion and also to believe the worst
‘ot poops" (10.39)

Harpals, who had hour ofthe rubless way ia which Alexander was n0W
‘meting ou jase to anyone suspected of insuboddination or galt, decided to
fee to Europe. He lft with 5.000 ans, 6000 mercenaries, and is consort
“Suga” Harplus headed for Athens, which ha granted hn casts, whet
te hoped to find allies to defend him aginst he king. However, his “Tllow
‘Atdentans” refused to allow im t eoter the city unit he had deposited his
‘mercenaries elsewhere. Harplus complied with their request and brought 700
talents into Athens. ony to find hinself imprisoned while envoys were sen
‘Alexander to ask what shouldbe done with him, Harps managed io escape 10
(Cet, where he was ultimately assassinated by one of his underlings.

Death was inthe ait Calamus. the Indian philosopher who had joind the
expedition in the Punjab, fell i in Pens. Ignoring the King’s cates,
(Calanus, who was 73 years of age informed Alexander that he intended
Ccemate’ himself rather than witness the deterioration of his corporeal
envelope. The king's vigorous protestations ell on deat eas, and Proemy was
‘tdeed 1 build funeral pye forthe philosopher's self-immolaion, Calms
‘ode on orscack up othe tc sai a prayer, poured a bation, and cutoff
‘Tock of his own hair to tow on the pyre: He ued the Macedonians present
“to make this day’ of gaiey and colebation and to dink deep with the king
whom, esi he Would soa seein Babson” (P67). Calamus then relned,
covered himself, and Waited unfinchingly for the appeoachiag Hames 1
‘consume hin,

“Alexander sommenorated hs friend's demise at the funeral pte. Chats, he
‘ings chamber. who was probably ab ejewitess, said hat Alexander dhe
‘poposed a inking contest. whereby the Winner would receive talent. the
Sccoa best half len, and so fot! Thay-4ve paripants ae eepoted 19
have dod as an immediate by-product of tee excesive consumption of uncut
‘win, and sis move di! in te afternth, The vitor is sid to have dunk 12
quarts, received is let, od ied four dys ster

Do not et

his te

te

yous

(a. 341)
‘Shorty therefter the king was reminded ofthe grave consequences of his own
‘dking sx years before Aria tellus that on his way to Susa the King passed
ttuough Persepolis nds the ensinsof the Persian palace to which be bimself
‘had fart St fie as I velated while expessng my condensation of his act
In fact Alexander himself did not approve [of] it on his return” (6.30.1). He did


Page 210, Instance 0, Class: Text
(at trey i i es, TS en nt 1D be Ce eels eee ee
‘Alexander experienced remorse a a tesult of his dining

He walks among

the ui

be

Is made

(a. 602-3)
[Nevertheless s Bosworth tls ws, “The intemperance of the court was 20W
assuming legendary proportions and the exceses of the wapsit af Catania
‘Were o recur periodically thoughout Alexanders lst mnths of fe."

Th Match 324, athe king approached Susa, be was joined by Nearchus, who
‘had suceeded in exploring the Pssan Gul as fr noah s the Euphrates, and
‘had then sailed up the Pastis fr his rendezvous with Alevandet. "The aeval
‘ofthe let and success of his admirals mission sllved the king's anxiety and
Warranted yet anotber joyous celsration. Leonnats also appears and
‘Alexandr held ceremonies signaling an oficial end tothe Indian expedion
Hephsestion and ll of the bodyguards were presented with golden crowns, and
Peucestas and Leonnatus Were singled out fo thee heroism in saving the kins's
fein "India" Nechus and Onesies each rceved sar distinction for
leading the lt on its epochal voyage.

SUSA (24 8C)

A festive spt suffused the amosphere at usa. The mast extaorinary ofthe
event that occured in the erly spring of 324 involved a fiveday celeation. It
Featured the maaiage of mote than ninety ofthe most prominent Macedonians
and Gres, including Alewander and Hephaestion, to atin women of toy
and aistozatic Blood While emining matied to Roxane. Aleander ook
{vo other wives: Sacra, the late Persian kings eldest davai, and Pays
the daughter of Anaxerses I (Oehus). The king thus asecated himself with
‘oth of the oyal houses fom which the last two Achaemenid rules bad
emegged, and echoed his fathers polygamous diplomacy. On the personal sid,
Hephaestion was mand wo Drypetis the sist of Alexander's bie Stara, 50
‘hal, we ae told, thei cilden Would be elated to one note” |

Inthe ober comet

Pustoklon wees to beat


Page 211, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Alexander arranged all ofthe other matches as well. The list of bride-grooms
‘ads lke a rol ell of thane men who wete closest tothe king during the year
‘before is dest. Craters mari the neve of Darius I; Prd, the daughter
ofthe savap of Media: and Polemy and Eumenes each marted a daughter of
“Anabuss. Nears mated a daugher (by Mente) of Busine, who bad been
‘Alexander's fist miswess. The hing endowed each a the ides witha handsome
‘dowry and the ceremonies were conducted according to Pein ation
“An acount hase on Chases, who may have atendd personally othe dt,
series the ene
[ie concluded maiages of himself and of his fiends besides,
‘onsracting ninety-two Bridal chambers inthe same place. The struct
‘was large enough for bunded couches and in Ie every couch ws
‘domed with nuptial coverings, and was made of siver.bat his ova,
ouch had supports of gold. He also included in his invitation 10 the
Tange all is personal fiends and placed them on couches opposite
‘himself and the eer idegrooms we te est of his foxes, both land
ind naval, he entertained inthe coutaad with the foreign embassies and
‘ouss the suucture was decorated sumptuous and magnificently with
{expensive draperies and fine linens, apd underfoe with purple and chins
‘ug interwoven with gold.bte were columns tht fet igh, pled and
Svered and studded with jewels. The ene enclose was sustounded.
‘with ich eartains having saimal pattems interwoven in gold tet eos
being overiaid with gold and aver The perimeter of the courtyard
‘edsured four stadia The cll o dinner was sounded on the trumpet. ot
faly at the tine of che nuptial banquets, but always when on eter
‘ccasions he chanced to be making bation, so that the entie army knew
‘what was going on. [VJny many person.contbuted ther erics
the jagalers fom Indi. harpist, ut, singers, dances]... And om,
tar day forthe poople who had previously been called “Dionysus
flares” were called "Alexander lteter” because ofthe extavagant
‘sents in which Alexander tok such delight.
‘Tragedies and comedies wete performed by some ofthe best ators available,
including the inveterate Tessas. Every guest the symposium received gold
cup asa memento ofthe afi
W.W.Tamn sw the mass mariages a @ noble and prescient geste on
‘Alexander’ part to culivate vision of the brotherhood of humatiy,” but
Badian’s analysis of the evidence concludes that such an assertion Is
luntenabl"" A. number of other modem scholars have interpreted thee
‘mariages asa dramatic illustration of Alenande's policy of fusion’ The most
comineing of these interpretations, that of Jarl, sees Alexander
‘ommingling the European and Asin lite in oadet to administer is plralisic
Sate mare effectively. "* This view enjoys some support fom the sources, and


Page 212, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘speaks of a more pragmatic than ideological Alexander when it came to dealing
‘withthe problems of governance.

‘A.B Bosworth however, his aise svios objections tthe assumption that a
policy offinion aay fanene existed He psn tat the general ul ws
{0 Keep Macedonians and Pessans scparae from ope anoter. Alexabder
himself waited until 324 to connect himself to the Achaemenid dynasty tough
‘mariage, Furthermove if proces of fusion was, in fat envisioned, Why were
there no unions between Asiatic men and European women? All indications
Bosworth clams, suggest tha Alexander fully intended to rule the Persian
Empze trough hs Macedonian marshal. The Susa matigesmetely served 10
theese ter positon nthe eyes of Iranian, just as Alexander's marrage 1
‘ute and Paysatis helped wo make his epime appear legitimate

“Admitedly. the king was anything but discriminatory in dispensing royal
lasgesse, Moreover, he had by this time integrated Persians int bs arm, fr,
the squadron level up to and including hs command syuctue. Alexander's
willingness to aisimlate Asati, however, is beter explained, Bosworth
Suggests, by practical necessity than by any” application of bumanianan
‘rincples. Bosworth aserts that Alexander would have willingly replaced the
Traian rank and file in his key unite with compat tuned in his own system
‘ha enough Macedonians been available, Buta manpower shortage dictated the
Uiliation of Asiatic subjects, Aletander played his Lemans off agus his
‘Macedonians, and atempied to iterate those conquered while simaltancously
fostering 4 division that encouraged climate of competion. In the end
everyone's best efforts would be used to further roy intentions,

“Alexander cominued to underestimate the intensity of Macedonian contempt
forthe whole proces of erentalizaion, His incorporation of Asics into the
army offended the Macedonians, who "thought hat Alexandr was going uted
‘atbarian at eat, and ueating Macedonian customs and Macedonians
‘hemselves without espet™ (A765). They were, i seems, "realy ped 1
sce Aleander weatng the Median des, while the masages celebrated in the
Pesian tle did not corespond to the desis of most of them, including even
some ofthe bridegroom, despite the great honour of being raised to quality
‘withthe king” (A762)

‘The Sus marriages may have had signfieance that the king dhought est 10
‘oep to himsell The offspring of these unions could never hope to be flly
acceped in either Europe or Asia If Alexander who had in a sense engineered
‘hei its, had survived, he Would have ben sen asa patiahal godfather of
sont, a benevolent pavoa toward whom they had o lok fr any recognition and
encouragement This next generation of Ides, who would have ben sen as 8
‘ce apart, would have no choice but o fel indebted to the king and obliged
‘splay excepdonal interest in his sucess and well being."

“Alexander aso pubily acknowledged the matages of his common soles
at Susu and seared them with gifs: Te gfe they received, however, were
‘contingent upon registration," which peobably included identifying the gender,


Page 213, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘ame, and number of their offspring. Like Philip, Alexander had become
‘sccusomed to harboring private agenda whe it came o publication

‘Whatever Alexanders intentions his marshals did ot dae to raise objections
to heir matches while the king was alive. Once he was dead, however, they were
abe wo eeveal their wuefelings toward this idea. andi sccm that al of them,
‘with the exception af Seleucus, dscaded their Asiatic wives. Seleucus bad
‘matied Spitamenes" daughter, and possibly stayed with his bide Because he
found thal she was exterely useful in comoldating 4 woublevme portion of
‘he empire he had carved ot fr bins:

"At Sust the king offered to sete the outstanding debs ofall of his oops
presumably to culate a beter rapport with his men. Buta general suspicion
peed thoughout the ranks that his was ruse, and thatthe King meely wanted
to Wey those who were in debt. Thus, only 2 handfl of men stepped forward
to ake advange of the king's generosity. An embarrased and angry Alexander
chided thom fora ack of faith him. Aran quote him as exclaiming tht "be
‘ing .must lays speak the wth this subjects, and none of the subjects must
ever suppose thatthe ing speaks anything but the wu (752)

‘Seasoned veterans must have exchanged astonished looks of dsbelit I was
‘ot Alexander announced that he no longer gute tei nates, but merely
an 1OU for reimbursement, thatthe soldiers surged forward to have tet debts
Tguidated. Arian informs ws tht "they wete mote grated by he concealment
oftheir names than by the extinction ofthe dbs" (7.3. This whale business
ost the king at leas 9870 ales."

‘Whatever popular Aletander may have gained though this magnanimous
este was soon lost when 30.00 young Ianian men appeased.“ Retuted i
the northeastern provinces six years before, they ad been put hough x igoous
Spprenticeship. that incladed Macedonian vulary tsning and the Greek
language. Deessed ia Macedonian clothing and Wielding their own suriine
(pikes these young men put-on a display of precision matching. ‘Their
cbusiasm, agility, and prfiiency eamed effusive pase from the king. He
fefered wo them as Eplgon! ('Successes”) This was no doubt taken as &
‘wating by his Macedonians tha they were no longer ieplaceable.

"The shocked and furious Macedonians refered contemptuously to tsi
‘Asaie counterparts as *war-dapcers.” They were obviously concerned bout
‘whether the king would actualy contemplate replacing them Wi barbarians. AS
‘We hve een, Asiatic woops hd been incorporated int the army fr some tins
athe proces of "hararzatio” had perplexed and disturbed the Macedonians.
‘The King's primary concer, however, sens to have been, as Bosworth suggests,
to maintain adequate manpower to exeete his pans." To accomplish this
‘had dea onthe Asian population. Otherwise would have drained Macedonia
of is Tighting force. and his homeland, unable to defend isl, would have
{ecalled him to Europe. This evenuty would have spelled doom for
‘Alexander's Asin Emp

"The “Successors” helped wo safeguard against that prospect. They aso served
1s hostages from a distant region and fom people likly fo cause Alexander


Page 214, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘wouble. Futhemore, like Macedonian Royal Pages those young Hania bad
‘een separated from their own moovings. They Were encouraged to dict their
loyalties and allegiance toward Alexander, and to remember that any prestige ot
sicees they achieved would hinge upon the approval and favor of the king and
Is officer cas.

“Although it might appear otherwise, Greece was nt altogeter forgotten by
the king At Susa, i an astonishing move he oedered the Greck city-states 1
{epatate al oftheir eles." This resulted in «complex proces of reabsorption,
‘Among those included were countless numbers of Greek mercenaries, who bad
‘recently been disbanded by royal dzcree i Asa, and many an-Macedoian
ls who were eapelled under the ia uence of Philip ce Alexander in pioe
Yeats. Once Alexander's father had gained some depres of conuol over Gece
‘rough the Covathian League, be had abidden cies to engage ia the practice
of exling undesinbles, Alexander's messure went one step beyond his fathers
Te roquied these cits to take Back all but the mast bjectionableof tei ov,
refugees.

‘Al the Olympic Games inthe summer of 324, Alexander’ envoy, Nicanor of
Sugita, who became Aristotle's som-inlav. proclaimed the king's ect of
‘estortio t some 20.000 eager cules." Their thunderous cheering found 0
cho, however, among the Geek officals responsible for accommodating the,
‘They ha wo aes vexing questions, such a the restiution of popes tat by
‘hen belonged to others. This staring measure did provide temporary seit for
‘Alexander's problem of vagrant soldiers in Asia, but i also spawned social and
political uno in Greece, which let a Greek rebelion boty afer the king's
eat

‘Sinton Hornblower comments: “what is nterestng is hat Alexander thought
‘he could save the difficulty ata suoke. ndifferent ba oopposivon (Ate)
andthe shoe complexity of the operation... seems that Alexander now sa
‘himself in superhuman oe, imposing global solutons—Iike a god: tis Zeus
‘who makes men exiles, wandering driven by the gaily over the ear aud
Sit, SIE) and Who Buta god can fevese the process on the necessary
scale"

You have some local Zeus

who spawns

sow god?

(Ba. 467)
DEIFICATION (324.8C)
“Late in 324 debate was held in Athens over the granting of divine honors 19
‘Alexander This sue seems to have een peompted by the king. A decision
ey Alexander would have meant thatthe king could be worshiped as a god
Gluing his owe etme, and a spuited argument ensued. Speakers Uke
Demosthenes and Lycuraus totested. i @ eateastie vein, about the king's


Page 215, Instance 0, Class: Text
overbearing peide. Demades, who bad once chllenged Philip's drunken
eportmeat and thereby earned his respect pointed out wo his fellow eitzens hat
they had beter be careful nt to lowe the sl under their feet while sfepuarding
the heavens "In the end there sms wo have been genera agreement tht
under the cicumstances, i was best to humor Alexander Even Demosthenes
an advantage in leting Alexander be the son of Zeus—and Poseidon as well —if
‘hat is what he wanted" Tas atiude apparently also made sense 10 other
Greeks. Datis of Sparta semurked rather dryly. “if be s0 wishes, he may be
called goa” (PMoe 2100)"

‘Alexander had already bee acknowledged asthe son of Ammon (or Zeus) by
te oracle at Sivah. He was sefious enough about his divine descent to be
‘noticeably defensive about it His position and apposition to doubters) fgued
Spniicanly in the prosecution of Philos, and east is shadow on the
lucumstances surrounding the impaling of Cis. Nevertheless, it was neither
‘ocestary noe wise fr bim fo foresake his moral ae inthe intrest of divine
ptemiy. Thre was «consieralediference between being the son of a god
find god in ons own sight" The difeence is spelled out by Avian in
‘counting 4 debate at sjmposium over this very question. It set in the
context othe proyness afae

‘Anaxatchas began the subject, saying that it would be far mote just 10

‘eckon Alexander a god than Dionysus and Heracles..in any ease there

‘was no dou that when Alexander had departed fom men they would

‘honour him asa god: how much more jus, then, tat hey shoul give him

‘is due in if ater than when be was dea. Calisthenes broke i and

‘id: "Anaarchu, [declare Alexander unworky of oo onour propriate

for aman; but men have used numerous ways of distinguishing ll the

‘honours which ae sppropriae fr men and fr gods. tis ot, therefore,

‘ope to confuse al this, by raising mortals to extavagact proportions by

Excess of honour, while brioging the go, as fata men eat down 10

emeaniag and unfting level by honouring them ia the same way 3

men... Even Hencles hinself di not receive divine honours fan the

Greeks in his own lietine, nor even after his death lth god of Delphi

five his sanction toonaring him asa god.""

4106-11)
Aisle spoke of “godlike men” in his Poca. Incrates had advised Philip
‘hat once he had conqused the Pesian Empite, dhe oaly thing left odo was 19
‘come a god" Php nay have bined a this intention by inating the
constuction of the solos (cular building) at Olympia By placing his ow
‘Stuue inte company of the Twelve Inmortal at Acga, he cetinly wished 1
‘be seen within the inerctcle ofthe greater gods, despite the charges of Fiybris
that such a gesture was bound to provoke. Philip seems to have been equally
‘unconcerned over the weath of Dionysus the original thitenth god.” In any
event it as Alexander rae than Philip who lived to se ths supreme gestae


Page 216, Instance 0, Class: Text
OF SEABMNATEY CARTIER OE, SHE ROWER, ORES ARAN, AE Ne COME ECE CE Winere

‘his mortal father had filed

Dionysus

‘whom you outage

by your acts

‘wit cal you

(ba 316-17)

‘Alexander sought deitiestion in Greece and seems to have been granted that
<istinction here" Exacly what ths mean 1 ether the Grecks or Alexander is
another guestion. The surviving comments of the Greeks make it abundantly
‘ear tha thee willingness o induce this new cult implied quote belict
‘atthe Mesh and blood king hee oa earth was in any way exhibiting some ofthe
‘mote sensational attabutes ofthe gods. Nr, st seems, did Alexander himself
‘have any illusions about this aspect of his divinity. Thus, Alexander comected
Dioxipps when he referred othe hood oozing fom one of de kins's Wounds
as chor the blood ofthe gods (IL 5340)" He had also laughed at Anaxarchus
‘who, noe occasion, had sked whether the king could toss thundrbolts"
NNovethless, Alexander posed for Apells with a thunderbolt ia his hand, and
‘was willing wo be depicted brandishing the same celestial Weapon on the Poeus
‘medalions."" When Greek cavoys approached Alevander in Babylon shoaly
‘fore his death they came aif "on a saced embassy to honor a gad” (A723
a

“Alexander sponsored is own divine cult for what seemed 10 him to be
practical seasoas, but it is difficult fathom how this elt might have actually
Sved him. In Greece the idea mecely confined a commen belief in his
Imegalomania, and seemed to fit more comfortably ino thir catalogue of
Hellenic resentments against him. His Irian subjects never thought of their
‘ler asa god. In 34, while Alerander was sedulusly attempting wo consolidate
tis image asa Great King inthe Achaemenid adn, it would have been folly
to peval upon Asiaics wo tke his apothooss seriously. Also the inoduction of
4 divine cult in Greece had nothing wo do with his Macedonians, although they
‘were certainly aware of i and no doubt feared that the cull would eventually be
imposed upon them.

‘We do nt tile wih divinity

No

‘we atthe bets of customs and trations

hallowed by age

sand handed down tous

ou


Page 217, Instance 0, Class: Text
ees

For Alexandr, however, personal incentives may have outweighed political
‘considerations, Despite te fact tht he ad created ab empte that made his
father’s domain look modest by comparison, had fought as courageously 3s
‘Achilles, had succeeded where Heracles had failed, and had outdsatced
Dionysus in taversing the world, these superb achievements seem to hive If
‘Alexander with ite mere than temperaty elation. Hs sense of salsfacton Was
Soon replaced by 2 compulsion too elsewhere, 10 accumulate mote eres
‘Plagued by what Wilcke ells “Alexandet's restless bain” the king's ony
‘solution so inner turmoil was to return tothe bail. I is almost as if he
“Imagined that some eataodinary public achievement might become the catalyst
vough which his pasate demons Would be exorcise

"Apotheois held promise of rei. This process woul elevate Alexander
shove secular cian and reduce the advice of Iser ents to inane banter
[No longer would he he accountable fr what adniers called eccentricity and
ouactors melancholia, Alexander could now operate ina divine guise, which
‘senerate its own logic and was ipso facto unfathomable to morals. Dissenters
‘would be guiy of profanation rather than teason. To someone wh indulged in
the fut of the vine with eversncreasing intensity hese musings might have
speared tobe as reasonable as they were atractive®”

do no mistake foe wisdom

the fantasies

of your sick mind

(ea. 311-12)
‘THE OPIS “MUTINY: (324.80)

‘As spring ted into summer, Aleander, now 31, elected to escape fom the
‘Swellerng beat of Susa an, like his Achacmenid predecessors, seek some relict
inthe cooler palace complex at Echstan. Bfoee tuning not, however, the
King fulfilled £ povhos to tee the Persian Gulf, which he anticipated would be of


Page 218, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The king founded anoter of his many Alexandvias in this epion (or instance
‘modem Chars) and sled upiver on the Tigi, pausing to undo te ineffective
“structions left bythe Persians to discourage naval ticks.

"AL Opis Alexander called an assembly and declared his iatntion to send back
‘home son 10.00 veterans no longer fit fr active sevice The king promised
fan extravagant bonus thit would make these men the envy of all thers in
‘Macedonia: Instead of his announcement prompting the dlivous cheering he
expected, however aimst fomented a mutiny. With the most dificult
‘campaigning behind them, Alexander's soldiers saw tis act a teflon of
‘oyalingatinde. twas belived to be te pole wo a general replacement of
‘Macedonians by Posins ad permanent wansfereace of thei kings capt 1
‘Asia. The soldiers, young abd old, healthy and infin, joined in a meanspsied
hon of proest

His men shouted hat the king should dismiss all of them and suggested
sarcatclly hati he wished to g0 on wit the Fighting. he could do so with the
‘sistance of his Yather,” Ammon, Alexander, who, Ari tells ws, “had become
by this ume quicker-empered" (783), was upset over the ay tite toward
‘him and enraged at having his divine patemity subjected to public sidiule. He
jimped down tom the platform into the efowd and summarily singled out
thirteen of te outspoken agitators for execution. This unanticipated response let
bis men in state of disorder

“Alexander then leaped back on o che platform and gave a speech that is
telatedby Avan and may be based onan eyewitness account fom either Pilea
oF Avistobulus" The Wouds reported are characteristic ofthe Alexander we
hve seen thus far and offer a sting profile of his personality. In another
‘yilan coup desdre Alexander bepan his specch wi a wibute to his father
Pip. This sarmingafismation of Philip as is moval ater stole the thunder
from those who spoke contemptuously of Alexander and Ammon, a soo let
coters Wondering about the legitimacy of tee pievances

is ofall. hal opin my’ spesch with Philip. my fae, a sony ae

Philip took you over when you were heples vagabonds [a summary of

‘what Philp did for them, followed by’ bis declaration that)... These

Servies..gteat as they are when considered by themselves alone, ae

‘setualy small in comprison with our own. Inertng from ay fuer only

{Tew gold and iver cups and ot so much as sixty Talents. Tat once

‘opened up for you arest).. added.t0 your empire. Ycapaued.and

{ave you [aes Thavesequied nothing for myself which of you i

‘conscious that be exerted bmw more in my behalf dan i his? Come

fen, let any of you sp and display his own wounds, and I will display

‘mine in tum... there iso at ofthe bods or noe in oat, that has Bee

Teft unwound... Tam often stuck by stones and clubs for your intrest.

{your glory and your riches... have made the same mariages ss you, and

‘many of your childen will be the kin of mine. Furthermore, if you

contacted debe, I did not make it my business to discover why, despite


Page 219, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘te enormous sums yu game by pay and plunder..bu T discharged them

ll Most of you have gold crowns as memorials of your own courage Dut

fabo of the honour that Ihave accorded you And now st was my

Intention to send away only men unfit for war, to be de envy of thos

home but as you all dese to go, 1 all of you begone [and tell thse

‘home}.-that Your hing [who] .crossed..eVen the ier Indus which 96

fone ut Dionysus had cessed before and would have crossed the

Hyphass [Bea] aswell but for your appehenson...you deserted him and

‘went off handing him ever to the protection of the buraslans be ad

‘onguesed. This report that will perhaps win you a fine eptation with

‘en an wil douaess be holy inthe sight of heaven. Begone!

792-103)

‘Alexander then jumped down fom the platform and stormed iat the palace
‘where he “paid no tention to his Bodily needs, and was not seen by any of the
Companions ot even onthe folowing di" (A7-1.1)-Leuving the oops who
‘nad Deen mesmerized by his speach, Alexander Kept out of sight nt i became
lear hat his AchilleanWithawal ad begun to generate widespread eoncem

He proceeded to order his Persian troops oft unis that would replace thee
‘Macedonian counterparts, Persian nabetuen were appointed to comand the
lyigades, and certain Asiatic “Kinsmen” were declared 10 be Companions
‘Persans so designated were eligible to exchange a loving hss wih the Kn.

‘This satagem played on the lurking suspicion among the Macedonians that
‘ey would Soon te teplaced by barbarians. Iealso eased the perennial question
‘ofthe own prospects for survival inthe heurnd of the Persian Expire without
{he Leadership and appeoval of thee king. Not one ofthe Royal Companions
stepped forward to champion thei cause as Coenus ad done atte Beas. Even if
‘hey dd succeed in returning to Macedonia on thei ow, these men might meet
‘witha cool and contemptuous secepon in some quarters and would be without
‘he smal fortune ther hing had promised them. Alexandr ad abandoned them,
{stash elt that he had been abandoned atthe Bess.

He sis apart

and cates nothing

or thinks of

Uh 18.106-7)

His oops eventually began flocking 10 the royal pavilion Uke penitent
pilgrias!©” Many of the men had wars in eheir ees and al of them cvew their
‘Weapons tothe ground in capitulation. They were willing to Set aside ll oftheir
‘Complaints except one: toe depivation ofthe aya kis The insisted that they
‘Would ot leave unt the king had forgives them, sign of abject submission
‘hat finally resale inthe king's reappearance. Upon seeing thir faces and


Page 220, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘earng thei lamentations, he began to weep himself"? Beneath his effusion of
tears We cn imagine sere sl of satisfaction,

He foggave them all When an older officer anticulated thee concem that
Persians were now able to kiss their king while the Macedonian rank and file
enjoyed no such honor, Alexander proclaimed tat henceoeh all Macedonians
‘Would be known as his Kinsmen. Mey wee offered he pivlge of a Kiss there
fd then, and many svaled themselves ofthe opportunity. His men collected
{heir Weapons and departed in a euphoric tat. epatdly singing a victory Sons
ltvas Alexander who should have Been chaning a paca Tue fo fem he once
again wansfomed a potential disse into a personal and political wiamph. Once
‘tain of his tops subservience be showed inl tobe a gracious str

‘The oops sill loved their king, but hey understood hr ss and the growing
stance between their ways of thinking and his conibuted Yo thei feelings of
confusion and bostlty. landers autudes became move unfathomable, and
‘is actions increasingly unpredictable. Thre were seems, a thousand faces to
‘Alexander. He was capable of rewarding and punising inthe sae Death and,
Tike his father, mained insruable even among thse else to hi

‘Schachenmeyr speaks of the "Reo, fiend. fuer of the soldiers (and) the
tveatoning. angry. teworizing, melancholy King" Wilekea sys hat
‘Alexandr could sppeur "as man of demonic passion,” ang that this was
“pat ofthe wonderful combinations of opposites in Alexanders nature, that by
the side of this passion he also exbbits a quite surpisinly cool and calm
discretion" Mary Renault elucidates the fundamental ambivalence i
‘Alexander: “otllecally, be was outstandingly flexible and. swift in his
‘adjustments. Emodonlly i was another mater His demands on himself were
Such that though tis lif's end he was equal to any physial hardship, pain or
langee, under exteme psychological suess he would beak aber than bed."
‘As ith Dionysus, the polarity ofthis ambivalent victor was east in the exeme.

“A lavsh banguet ws Held at Opis to commemerate both the recoeiation|
tetween the King and his woops, and between Macedonians and Persians."
‘Alexander played hor to 9,00 guest this au, and bis seuing arangement
‘was based one selaveimpoctance of his various subjets" He "seated allthe
‘Macedonians round hi, aed next to them Persians and then any persons fom
the othe peoples who tok precedence for sank or any eter high quai, and be
Fimself and those aound bum drank from the same bow! and poured the sue
ations, with the Greek soothsayers and Magi inating the ceremony
‘Alexandr raed for various blessings and especially hat the Macedonians and
Pesians should enjoy hamony (homonoia] ay partes inthe government” (A
1-8-5). Thy then all poured ibation at the same ne and et out toy cy


Page 221, Instance 0, Class: Text
ane made their prayer

tothe gods

‘who ive

everlasting

3285-6)

In addition wo back pay and aveling expenses for their joumey home, every
ischarged Macelotan soldier received the colosal bonus of one talent.” They
‘would rem home as living proof tha there wee fortunes tobe made by serving
‘Alexander in Asia, Back home these men and thet fanies would enjoy the
‘rogative of siting in the sets ofBonor a the font of the dester where they
Could display thei privilege and auence

“If they had chilsen by Asian wives, he adored thm wo eave them behind
‘with him, and-aot take Bome to Macedonia source of confit between
Foweignes and chlden of feign wives and the children and mesbers they bad
Tet behind them: he promised personaly to see that they were Brought up i the
‘Macedonian way. particulary in military vaining: when they were gfO%M 19
‘manhood, he would take the back binwel to Macedonia und hat het over
their fathers” (A7.122) Although he seems wo accep this account, even Arian
fefers to these promises as “vague and uncertain” (7123, and ts uly that
the king ever had any such ntenon. Alexander was, in fat, bothrelievinghismen
‘of the moral responsibil for ehlden they had sired on the expedition, and
png to ensure himself of equate manpower forthe future

L

shall

home

{dL 18330)

‘The king oxdered Craters, assisted by Poyperchon (a prominent Macedoian
offie to lead the ies to Macedon,” The assignment of Craters, pete
‘Alexanier’s best general and favorite among the men, was good for pubic
{elations It served to reassure his butle-sared veterans that everything Be had
‘done was aftr al, in thei best ineest. I may also have been 4 welcome
assignment for Crates, a wadtonalist who, for ll his loyalty, expressed no
“thsi fo the King’s oriental eatin. Polyperchon, wo went wth in is
‘epoted to have oace mocked a Persian performing obeisance an indication that
‘oo was not among the more zealous suppers of the changes inthe king and
fis cour

Te amight be recalled that Crates was an implacable enemy of Hephaesin. It
‘was near he tine of Craters” depute that Hephaestion became Chia, the
(Greek equivalent ofa Posi le that mplid the greatest of distinctions under
the king. Though Crates’ latest appointment Alexander had removed


Page 221, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘foie goes
‘who lve
everlasting
3285-6)

In addition wo back pay and aveling expenses for their joumey home, every
ischarged Macelotan soldier received the colosal bonus of one talent.” They
‘would rem home as living proof tha there wee fortunes tobe made by serving
‘Alexander in Asia, Back home these men and thet fanies would enjoy the
‘prerogative of siting i the seats of honor a the font ofthe theater where they
Could display thei privilege and auence

“If they had chilsen by Asian wives, he adored thm wo eave them behind
‘with him, and-aot take Bome to Macedonia source of confit between
Foweignes and chlden of feign wives and the children and mesbers they bad
Tet behind them: he promised personaly to see that they were Brought up i the
‘Macedonian way. particulary in military vaining: when they were gfO%M 19
‘manhood, he would take the back binwel to Macedonia und hat het over
their fathers” (A7.122) Although he seems wo accep this account, even Arian
fefers to these promises as “vague and uncertain” (7123, and ts uly that
the king ever had any such ntenon. Alexander was, in fat, bothrelievinghismen
‘of the moral responsibil for ehlden they had sired on the expedition, and
png to ensure himself of equate manpower forthe future

1


Page 221, Instance 4, Class: Text
‘The king oxdered Craters, assisted by Poyperchon (a prominent Macedoian
offie to lead the ies to Macedon,” The assignment of Craters, pete
‘Alexanier’s best general and favorite among the men, was good for pubic
{elations It served to reassure his butle-sared veterans that everything Be had
‘done was aftr al, in thei best ineest. I may also have been 4 welcome
assignment for Crates, a wadtonalist who, for ll his loyalty, expressed no
“thsi fo the King’s oriental eatin. Polyperchon, wo went wth in is
‘epoted to have oace mocked a Persian performing obeisance an indication that
‘oo was not among the more zealous suppers of the changes inthe king and
fis cour

Te amight be recalled that Crates was an implacable enemy of Hephaesin. It
‘was near he tine of Craters” depute that Hephaestion became Chia, the
(Greek equivalent ofa Posi le that mplid the greatest of distinctions under
the king. Though Crates’ latest appointment Alexander had removed


Page 222, Instance 0, Class: Text
Heephaestion’s only rel competitor for royal favor. Although Craterus was an
cttandng genera, his wafer woud hive no insmod effet on milary
‘Sperationns cae he had bse sesiously Hl nd uuble to parpate i any

rns wan exe 1 replace Ania ad assume tha sepuagenasia’s
ff independent commands and may have povided some tecompense Tor
Caters who would ow fancon words away fom the comin of power
“Anipacr ould jun Alexander in Babson, biging «ech contngent of
Jour home however he was appre sted to supervise an extensive
Bipblding projet in Cilicia’ The delay cased by Craters ask in Cia
‘shape aftr Antiptr the oppo to refet on what new re te ing
‘ight hve in mind for bt.

‘lyme ha een comphinng to Alexander fo some ine aout Antipatrs
segal pone" In 31, while Anite sl ced indapenable to Alexander
‘Confrontation heteen th kings ther and his tegen eed in Oyps
‘noe Serious ateton to his mothe. Olyapis had heen reasonably accurate
“spiciusson might wel hive ingle dt twas te for is steward to be
‘eed rane les power poston.

220, when Alexander reported to have call his regen’ try over the
‘Spanana “abate of nic” During the same yar Alexandr’ witha foal
tc from the Lyncestan Aland, Antiptrs son, was leat
[ration that things were changing. One ase, probubly stn the last yar
Gf Alexanders hs at abonytons cour psing Ania s gain
‘The king. having become tore dfesive about his own lel of ae
nonce idly tat alhough Anipatersexteio appeed to be wb, be

“Te announcement ha Ceaterus aso replace Apter a regent was made
sa Opis in 324, Albough Anipuer hal boon sbcenul enough nis
‘esposiiics ding the pst dade to avid any eal by the King, esl
‘night have been concerned shout this sumonst court. Villy al ofthe ol
‘iad Macedonians af any sanding had somehow nunaged to dapper he
Sparely routine pure, only to finds heal onthe ck kn tempting fo
‘pecs, but he at ofthe ate i that we have no way of termining what
‘Resaner hanno Anpater The only etn tht Antipas contined
‘Mina forthe remainder of Alexanders iene

‘Aligh Anite ever join Alexander, in ctly 323 he ent his elds son
Ccasanet (oho ad omalned ia Bop in 33) 10th cot st Babylon.


Page 223, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘There this young man joined his two brothers, the youngest of whom was Tolaus
the king’ cpearer. At cout Castander made the near-fatal mistake of laughing
(ut loud ata Pessian subject who was performing prosyness before the king
‘When this cecused Alexander jumped rom his tone seized Cassaner by the
‘ni and bashed his head up aginst the Wal. Even years later Cassandet i sid
to have wembled when exposed to a sue of Alexander at Olympia"
‘THE DEATH OF HEPHAESTION (324 BC)

During the autumn of 324 Alexander ted his mien north over the Zagros
‘Mountains Echatana, where he would min unl the ealy sping of bis lst
year. While the amy marched toward its destination, Atuopaes, the satap of
‘Media, presented the king with 100 horsewomen ated With axes and sh
seady Tor combat. This gift of "Amazons," We are told, was fojcted by
‘Alexander because of his earth his own oops might abuse them.

Etats the sumer eet ofthe Achaeinenids, provided the opportunity
and ambionce for leisure, reteation, and drinking bouts” An eXtavagant
Tesival was holdin honor of Dioaysus. lis magnitude was enhanced bythe
‘importation of 3,000 performers from the Dionysia gull in Gresce.”" This
fporamie wibue to Dioaysus may hve bad its eign inthe king's realization
fat he was playing a dangerous game in courting favorable: comparisons
‘between himself and he god.

Teo late

‘When there was

you

Aid vot

ow me

(Ba. 1385)

Bosworth has reenly poate ou that an extact fom the Ephemerdes (or Rove
Diaries) ited by Aclian. which contains a ocord of the deiaking bouts in Which
‘Alexander patcipated ding the Macedonian month of Diss (Octobe
‘November, should mest likely be st dung this sojourn to Ebatan eater an
Inter in Babylon" I reveals an istmetive pate to the King's carousing:

‘They say that on the ith ofthe month Dias he dank at Eumeus' then on

the sath he slept from the drinking: and as much oF Wat day as be ws

Fresh, vsig up. he did business wilh the offices about the modow's

journey, saying Dat it would be eas. Andon the seventh be was a guest

at Podiceas" and drank again: and a de eighth e slept. On the fens

{ofthe same month he also drank. and on the fllowing day be did the

{things casomary after drinking” On the twenty-fourth he dnc at Bagous

[ether the eunuch oe the son of Pharnuches| the house of Bagoas was ten


Page 223, Instance 2, Class: Text
‘There this young man joined his wo brothers, the youngest of whom was Flas,
the king’ cpearer. At cout Castander made the near-fatal mistake of laughing
fut loud ata Persian subject who was performing proskmests before the king.
‘When this cecused Alexander jumped rom his tone seized Cassaner by the
‘ni and bashed his head up aginst the Wal. Even years later Cassandet i sid
to have wembled when exposed to a sue of Alexander at Olympia"
‘THE DEATH OF HEPHAESTION (324 BC)

During the autumn of 324 Alexander ted his mien north over the Zagros
‘Mountains Echatana, where he would min unl the ealy sping of bis lst
year. While the amy marched toward its destination, Atuopaes, the satap of
‘Media, presented the king with 100 horsewomen ated With axes and sh
seady Tor combat. This gift of "Amazons," We are told, was fojcted by
‘Alexander because of his earth his own oops might abuse them.

Etats the sumer eet ofthe Achaeinenids, provided the opportunity
and ambionce for leisure, reteation, and drinking bouts” An eXtavagant
Tesival was holdin honor of Dioaysus. lis magnitude was enhanced bythe
‘importation of 3,000 performers from the Dionysia gull in Gresce.”" This
fporamie wibue to Dioaysus may hve bad its eign inthe king's realization
fat he was playing a dangerous game in courting favorable: comparisons
between himself and the god.


Page 223, Instance 4, Class: Text
Bosworth has recently pointed ou that an extract fom the Ephemerdes (or Rove
Diaries) cited by Aelan, which conins a record ofthe inking bouts in which
Alevander patcipaed during” the Macedonian month of Digs (Octobe
November). sould most key be set diag this sojour to Eebatana cathe han
ater n Bayon” I eveas an istativepatiem to the King's carousing:
‘They say that on the ith ofthe month Dias he dank at Eumeus' then on
the sath he slept from the drinking: and as much oF Wat day as be ws
Fresh, vsig up. he did business wilh the offices about the modow's
journey, saying that it would be eat. And on the seventh he was a guest
at Podiceas" and drank again: and a de eighth e slept. On the fens
‘ofthe same tom he also drank, and on the fllowing day he did the
{things casomary after drinking” On the twenty-fourth he dnc at Bagous
[ether the eunuch oe the son of Pharnuches| the house of Bagoas was ten


Page 224, Instance 0, Class: Text
ads from the palace; then onthe twenty-cighth he was atest. Accordingly
fone of two conclusions must be te, either dat Alexander hut himself
‘dy by drinking so many days i the month that those who Wse these
things"
Your neath
Astilleus
9.228)
Bosworth comments that “The draking-sessions reovded inthe Ephemerides
‘were hardly exaggerated"”* We cane sure that Alexander's dearest frend
Hephaeston, was one of those who shared inthis pi oping.”
You disparage
the git
thats
his chifet
ory
(Ba. 652)
Ik was ia the midst ofthese elaborate celebrations tht the kings alter eg killed
‘himself trough overindalgence in wine. Diodorus tells us that Hephseston
rank inappropriately and Green has commented that Hephastio’s “capacity
for aleatol seems to have at east equalled Alexander's" The hing was avare
of his com's excessive dnking, and when Hephaeston Became il and
‘contracted high fever Alexander assigned the Greek physician Glaueas™ 19
‘monitor bis condition and tehavior in onder to prevent further deterioration,
Glavcias was specifically instructed 10 prevent Hephaestion fom drinking
‘Neverthe, ding the moming of the soveath day of Hephaestio’s lass, the
[tient ignored the advice of his dacor (who may have gone fo the theater) and
‘Washed dowa his chicken witha hal-gllon of chilled wine t beaks.”
this
his
eat
cod
evil
‘estrution
be was
cueing
UL 1646-7)


Page 224, Instance 3, Class: Text
(Ba, 652)

Ik was ia the midst ofthese elaborate celebrations tht the kings alter eg killed
‘himself trough overindalgence in wine. Diodorus tells us that Hephseston
rank inappropriately and Green has commented that Hephastio’s “capacity
for aleatol seems to have at east equalled Alexander's" The hing was avare
of his com's excessive dnking, and when Hephaeston Became il and
‘contracted high fever Alexander assigned the Greek physician Glaueas™ 19
‘monitor bis condition and tehavior in onder to prevent further deterioration,
Glavcias was specifically instructed 10 prevent Hephaestion fom drinking
‘Neverthe, ding the moming of the soveath day of Hephaestio’s lass, the
[tient ignored the advice of his dacor (who may have gone fo the theater) and
‘washed down bis chicken with hal-gallon of chilled wine at beeakfast."


Page 225, Instance 0, Class: Text
Hephaeston's mtuial braces proved tobe his ist dink His Teer soared, and
hh relapsed and ded shortly theveafter, Thte is litle disagreement tht the
King's second self "dank hinself o death” The man who had ben seriously
‘wounded at Gaugamela, and who had fought all along with courage and
Intlience, presented a singularly unberoic departure. The circumstances
Foyeshadvied the king's own demise within les tha a yea
Taformed of Hephestion’s sudden slapse, Alexander ashe wo hi sie, but
was too late The king was devastated by ths los. Asian says “tat for two days
aller Hephseston'sdeuh Alexander tasted no Tood” ad took no care af his
‘ody. bu either moaning o in a seroma silence” (7148). Some say he ly
‘Weeping on his comrade fo day and a night befor being pied a.
‘Theres stengh was washed avay
sin fr hs hands
te et al othe ground
the foot of grea hearted Paulos
toliedre
fn imal collapsed
prone
‘verte dead man
{UL 19298-300)
‘The hing personally dove his coafidan's funeral chusit. He ako exccued
Hephaeston's physician, Glauciay, for either prseibing wiongly of mote ky
forfaling to stop Hephoeston from drinking ° The local temple of Asclpiu.
the goof healing, was razed by onde ofthe king” Alexanders grief Knew 10
Tinie" Ks pathological expression was tflcion of the King's own
deepening abetrany, which wis now accelerated by bis profound personal los.
Atilleus wept sil
‘she remembered
fis beloved companion
‘he actions. he ardbips. she wats of men
Remembering al these things
het al
the swelling tars
UL 243-9)
Late, when Alexander mst with emisaries from Epidarus (which housed
famous temple dedicated to Asclepius) he gave these men whatever they asked
for addion to a handsome ofetig tothe god. Jusiing his impos action at
Echatana, the king pointed out to the Epidarians that ASclepias had not been
‘Kindo hin “i fang to save. the coma whom valued as uch as my ie"
(7.1462 Altnough he was most likey ocopnized asa od in Hellas by this
tine, Alexander stil felt obliged to explain his uncivilized behavior
Courlesy www pdfbookstree.


Page 225, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘Hiephnestion’s matetina! tracer pacrvecl to he Iie leet dink, Eile Sever snemed, and
hh relapsed and ded shortly theveafter, Thte is litle disagreement tht the
King's second self "dank hinself o death” The man who had ben seriously
‘wounded at Gaugamela, and who had fought all along with courage and
Intlience, presented a singularly unberoic departure. The circumstances
Foyeshadvied the king's own demise within les tha a yea

Taformed of Hephestion’s sudden slapse, Alexander ashe wo hi sie, but
was too late The king was devastated by ths los. Asian says “tat for two days
aller Hephseston'sdeuh Alexander tasted no Tood” ad took no care af his
‘ody. bu either moaning o in a seroma silence” (7148). Some say he ly
‘Weeping on his comrade fo day and a night befor being pied a.


Page 226, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘Nevertheless, Hephestion was iretievably lost and these was nothing that even
Alexander could dot change tht

Actilleus

reat

she was

‘ould

&

ating

help

you

{dl 163837)

Funeral games were held on a grand scale. The king cut his hc for Hephaeston
48 Achilles had done for Patocus, and is std o have had his horses shorn a
‘Well No musical inseument, including the Mlle, which was specal 1
Hephaestion (and associated with Dionysus.” was beard in camp,

sod

ighong

‘Sift footed Achilles

From a golden mixing-bow

‘with two-handed goblet i is hand

iow the win and poured it o the ground

fd deached the ground wat it

and ealed upon the sul

ct

‘unhappy

Pathos

2321820,

‘The sacred fires of the empire were extinguished in memoria. thereby
sending Hephston an honor customarily reserved for Pesian les. His
‘egment would fom then on be called Hephaesion’s Woop. and thse men
‘Would eae tet dead eade's image ito bate asthe sana

"At lust 10,00 flee were st side for his funeral pyre. Alexander sought
out Deinorates who “Was Tamaus for his innovations. which combined an
xcepional degree of magnificence, audacity and extention” to buld it (P.72
5). The suucture would be some 200 fet high in the form of a ziggurat, and
Include “eagles wih outspeead wings Looking downward, while about tet bases
‘were serpents looking up at the egles"(D.17.1133)

“Alexandr sent a mesenger to Siva to ingize whether o not divine onars
‘could be pid to his loved one, The answer, ironically, came to him shortly
‘efor his own death in Babylon, The eacie suid that divine honors were


Page 226, Instance 3, Class: Text
Actilleus

reat

she was

‘ould

&

ating

help

you

{dl 163837)

Funeral games were held on a grand scale. The king cut his hc for Hephaeston
48 Achilles had done for Patocus, and is std o have had his horses shorn a
‘Well No musical inseument, including the Mlle, which was specal 1
Hephaestion (and associated with Dionysus.” was beard in camp,

sod

ighong

‘Sift footed Achilles

From a golden mixing-bow

‘with two-handed goblet i is hand

dew the wine and poured it onthe ground


Page 227, Instance 0, Class: Text
Inappropriate, bt Heptueion cold be one ter The King ten
Cre tht ich a beets perp nd be bcate the ft 0
Sir bere anes to Hep vechi xeanon tha Be ing wee
Spec leer Coens the sap of Fay nang his swat ht
‘Me over was involved cge paste Bt rms oon i for
nan fre indo eid ote Hephaeton'sc sies

Youle madnes before

tenis,

tin

‘ta 399)

Hephawion endeared ims of men ther han Asan, Een. th
{ines ke Criss became onbiedina persona conven ith
Tin hon epson ded. Eamencs att enough oboe the is
fhe Ling sujet dat himself an is arte mary of he
{cena fe was aming oak clear ejond sad oda a
‘wheter their ple ad bcm nh pst ei st cen Hepes
{oun pet many Copano lowed saan poland ay ages te
tings vote were made

Now you go down

{bine hwo Death

ini soe places

tee

Thins

ine sono

soaring

‘ira

‘Avian says that Alunder would hve pifened to have dod before
Tepito, jt at Alls al wished to de aire Pac" Hs fad
‘vnthe oly man, Alexander belived wb love hin forbs, He wa ao
the only pen, her than Olypian who could be tuned it
‘ecsvaina$ Hepueston tad zelosly cadoned even the most sable
Siero inthe Kg’ person snd police Hs role the proncton of
Phila and is tempt ade poste speak foe his wilingess 0
“eras to th ig heh ene young lon as sep
No" Dy tte ait of Dionysus ke a hapless vin of te Gabon Dod


Page 227, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘inappropriate, but Hephaestion could be honored as a hero.’!° The king then

‘xdeed that such a cult be established in perpetuity. and he became the fst 1

offer hero saciceso Hephaestion. Iason this occasion that the King Wrote

peculiar leter to Cleomenes, the satrap of Eaypt.itinating his awareness that

{his governoe was iavolved in comupe practices but promising to fre him for

fast and ature misdeeds if he did jstice to Hepaeston's heroic shines"
“Vou tallied unadnece befiowe


Page 227, Instance 4, Class: Text
{Ul 22.482-3)
‘Awian says that Alexander would have prefered 10 have died before
Hepseston, just a Achilles had wished to de before Patoclus2"” His frend
‘was the oaly man, Alexander believed, who loved him for himself. He was aso
the only person. other than Olympias, who could be tsted without
seservation:"" Hephaeston had zealously endovsed even the most subile
alterations in the king's person and policies. His ole in the prosecution of
Pilots and his atempt to intoduce proskynesis ypeak for hs willingness 19
lunderake any task onthe kina Beal. Inthe end ths young lion Was swept
vay by the gift of Dionysus, like haples victim of the Gedrosian food.


Page 228, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Fronically, the king, o¢ Lane Fox comments, “virsak heavily to drown hie
oun
sot
Tkewise
isch
isthe ate
‘which has been wrought
forme
Md 18.120)
‘Aer a prowactd petiod of mourning Alevander marched out agaist the
‘Cossacans, nomadic uibe in the Zagros mountain region between Ecbtana and
‘Sua. “To lighten his sorrow he set off on a campaigh as if the tacking down
and hunting of men might console hin, and he subdued the ibe of the
(Cowsaeans, massacring the whole mil population from the youths upward: this
‘was termed asactific othe spit of Hepaeston” (P72.
i all an evil death
‘ial of you
py
foe
the death
ot
Pasoklos
201334
“Thus, Alexander offered human scifies to honor the shade of Hephaestin, 7
8 Achilles had done for Paroclus A mliary explanation could be offeted Tor
‘he campaign agains the Cossacans, but Balan pale advises that hiss one
fof the eases in which “it would be unsound to postulate purely "ational
‘Alexander and, trom tis premise, deny the multiple atesation of irationaiy.
especially at his perio o his ie."
You ate mad
avevously mad
beyond te power
ofany
uss
(Ba. 326-7)


Page 228, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘drank heavily to drown his


Page 229, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘THE LAST PLANS (323 BC)

‘Alexander's eur wo the West prompted many states o pay diplomatic eespcts
toa man whowe emergence outof India made is “nvinliliy”appea fa lest
fanciful than it had once seemed. Ambassadors from Europe and Avicagreted
the king on his way to and at his court in, Babylon, and offered theit
‘congratulations on a sucessful contusion to his wiumphan easter expedition,
Envoys fom the Covinhian League came gatlanded ass they wete approaching
god, and cared golden crowns, their highest honor. as gifs. Same came fom
Libya, the south Italian peninsula and Rome, while others wete reposted >
have been” sent by Cele and Tberans from the westem regions of the
Moditerancan. Carthaginian, who feared that they might soon Bein colic
‘wih Alexander, also came us dd Seythians and Ethiopians.

"The uber ad variety of these depuaions were so prolfrous that
‘Alexander found i necessary to atage to receive them on a epulaly scheduled
‘ass ence he had setded in Babylon. Theit rank and order of reception reflected
the king's interests and prions, Religious insues were deal with fist
‘presentations to the king second, disputes involving neighbors thd, intramural
‘oblemsfouth, and arguments opposing the Exiles’ Decree last

‘Some westerners were clearly Concemed over whether Alexander might lok
in tei elzection foc is next campaign. Asian refers to unnamed histo Who
cite Alevander’s plans to ckcumavgate Avabia and Affica and then sail nto
the Mediterranean at its western cult in oder to conquer Libya and Carthage,”
He also refers to those who assert Alexanders resolve to sl though the Black
‘Sea andthe Sea of Azo to strike atthe Seythins, and to oter sources which
<Uscass he king's designs on Silly and Tal

Plutarch mentions Alexandersintntion to sil around Arabia and Aca, nd
to pase by the Pillay of Heracles afer ettering the western Meditrranan®
Gunite writes of Alesanders determination 1 complete a conquest of the
ease seaboard aswell as of a match against Carthage He also cain that a
‘mada of 70 ships was tobe built taken to Babylon, and then launched against
(Carthage from Sytia. In this plan Alexander would procced to Spain and then
sal along the upper lp ofthe Mediterranean to Epirus his mers native and


Page 229, Instance 2, Class: Text
3
Death in Babylon


Page 230, Instance 0, Class: Text
Inallikelibood this destination would aso serve a a point of departure. At any
‘ate, is dificult o disagree with Avstobulus who said quite simply (ough
‘Suabo) that Alexander wished to be"oed of all 15.16.11),

Diadonis offers a detailed dncusion of Alexander's lst plans.° His secount
com 10 be dawn fom Hierooymus of Cardia an excepuonaly tlable
Istoran Hieronymus was a pete of Eumenes the kings soe. and is
Sid to have based his version of Alexander’ plans on the king's own
‘memoranda (hypomnemata). Though Diodorus be tls us that hese plans were
<Uscoveted after the king's death and brought before the amy foe consideration
by Peadiveas. They were voteddown because ofthe coxtinvolvedand the difficulty
(thot Alexander?) in sccesflly seeing them though.

Acilleus alone

‘ew how

(UL 16182)

Although several ofthe items included on Diodorus’ ist of plans have inspired
Skepiism, and even caused some modem historians wo dismiss teenie account
45 ficttious number ofthe ems appear credible as well ay consistent With
the King’s pattems of behavior Include in this catgory ate the following: the
‘onstion ofan arma of 1,000 ships fran assault on Carthage ad the ther
powees in the westem Meditesranan (Alexander had borne ill will against
{Carthage since the siege of Tye): the Building ofa road along the coast of Libya
to the Pillas of Heracles, withthe simullaneous construction of ports and
‘haters the foundation of ne ies veiprocal wansplantton of populations
‘between Asia and Europe (ashi fuer had done win his eal); the execton
of soven magnificent tonples—dvee in Greece at Delos, Delph. abd Dedons
twee in Macedonia at Diam (Zeus), Amphipois Artemis) and Cyenus (Athena)
nd anor for Athena at Troy "at could never be supassed by an) het?
{he completion of 2 memorial to Hephaeston- and the building ofa pyeanid
{probably at Aegae) the size of Choops in honor of Philp. This ial tom would
silence those who might question Alexander's devotion his moa father.”

His immediate goal was nothing les than the congest ofthe entre Arabian
peninsula” It waste inchpin in a grand plan to connect lia and Egypt His
[rctext, according to Asian, was tat the Aras were the only peopl nts pat
‘ofthe world who had neglected vo pay homage to him. The tu of the mater
‘Amin ad, “s hat Alexandr was allay insti in winning possessions" (7
196).

Bosworth suggests that by this time Alexander's “concept of his
‘own geamess had become obsessive"? A sory tod by Aman, drawn from
‘Ansobuls, supports tis hypothesis:

[Alexandr] hand thatthe Amis honoured only two gos, Uranus and

Dionysus Uranus because he is visible and conais within himsell the

sary and especially the sun, from which the greatest and most obvious


Page 230, Instance 3, Class: Text
In ll likelihood this destination would also serve as a point of departure. At any
‘ate, is dificult o disagree with Avstobulus who said quite simply (ough
‘Suabo) that Alexander wished to be"oed of all 15.16.11),

Diadonis offers a detailed dncusion of Alexander's lst plans.° His secount
com 10 be dawn fom Hierooymus of Cardia an excepuonaly tlable
Istoran Hieronymus was a pete of Eumenes the kings soe. and is
Sid to have based his version of Alexander’ plans on the king's own
‘memoranda (hypomnemata). Though Diodorus be tls us that hese plans were
<Uscoveted after the king's death and brought before the amy foe consideration
by Peadiveas. They were voteddown because ofthe coxtinvolvedand the difficulty
(thot Alexander?) in sccesflly seeing them though.


Page 231, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘benefit comes to all human alas, Dionysus in view of his reported

expedion to Indi, ad that Alexander terefore thought himself worthy 10

‘eepatded asa tid god by the Aabs, since his achievements Were 3s

‘magnificent as thse of Dionysus

rama

Alexander seasoned that i he conquered this region and then permite he Arabs
to he governed acotding wo their own customs—as he bad Jone i dia he
they would be willing to worship him ou of gratude for reserving their way of
ite

‘final seriousness

this is

your tue argument

then

itis the very gous

‘who

‘ined

the bain

within

you

UL7389-60)

‘A hug basin fora new harbor was be dug a Baby that would bold 1,000
ofthe kings vessels. Phoenician ships wore o be en apart, transported to the
Buphrates, and reassembled there. Alexander ordered an exploration of the
cosine, anit was epted to him that Arabia was expansive, prosperous and
paruculay well endowed wih exotic spices. He was advised, however thatthe
oaine was immense, almost scene slong 35 that of India. This dd nok
‘trim

Thence

torch Arabia

(ba. 16)

‘Repos also told ofan abundance of offshore islands with suitable harbors and
ond prospects forthe foundation fetes. One of his ship captains informed bmn
fan land (Failaka) where Artemis was woeshiped and goats and der roamed
fel Hunting was permite oaly i the huster intended wo sacrifice bis victim
to the goddess. Arman, again relying on A¥istbulus, tells us that “Alexapder
commanded this sland 1 be eae Tears, afer de island Tears in the Aegean
‘Sea. upon which according to the prevalent story Irs, som of Daedalus. fll
‘when the wax with which his wings had Been fstned melted, because he dl
‘ot follow his father's injunctions and My 1ow near tbe ground, but was mad
enough 1 fly high allowed the sun to melt and loose the Wa, and let his mame


Page 231, Instance 2, Class: Text
benefit comes to all human affis, Dionysus in view of his seported

expedion to Indi, ad that Alexander terefore thought himself worthy 10

‘eepatded asa tid god by the Aabs, since his achievements Were 3s

‘magnificent as thse of Dionysus

rama

Alexander seasoned that i he conquered this region and then permite he Arabs
to he governed acotding wo their own customs—as he bad Jone i dia he
they would be willing to worship him ou of gratude for reserving their way of
ite


Page 232, Instance 0, Class: Text
to both the island Icarus and the Icarian se” (7.205) Could Alexander have
‘een thinking of his ow fatal scent?

Tn the spring of 323, while approaching Babylon, the king was told a
sconcenting sory that has als been pase on to us by Aistobuls dough
‘Aman Itconcens Apollodorss, one of he Companions who had been Ie 0
command the king's woops in Babylon while Alexander marched toward India
Sd who was aow wih hm again at court He had become concerned over the
Severe punishments being issued by the king to those accused of
‘aladministation He wrote f© is bother Pythagoras, divine. 10 inuite
about his on fate. Pythagoras. who was in Babylon a the time, wide back 19
{sk who twa hat he feared so much athe reseed o divination, Apallodorus
‘epled that twas Alexander and Hephsestion,

"The fist sctifice was made concerning Hephaesion, Pythagoras found tht
{he victin's liver had no visible lobe, an ominous pocen. The seer epated this
Jina sealed ltr to his bother, who had moved with the cour to Ecbatan, and
‘vised tha there was noting to fear fom Hephaestion because he would soon
‘he gone Ironically, this infomation i aid to have atived in Ecbatana on the
day before Hephaestion did."

the iver

From its place

an rout

the Black blood

drenched

the fold

of his tunic

dt 2070-1)

Another victim was then sacrificed with Alexander in min. Once moreno abe
‘Was Visible Rather than Kep this news to himself, as bis bother probaly
vised, Apollodrus decided that he had baer inform Alexander "with he ie
{oF showing loyalty in higher degree to the king by advising im wo beware in
fase any danger came upon him at this ime” (7.18.3). Given his concer over
the reports of Alexander's tational behavior, Apellodors was aking no
chance,

“Alexander thanked Apollodrus for his report (which was apparently lacking
in dea, and when the king entered Babylon, he made a point of asking
Pythagoras the specific nature ofthe sign that had prompted him to waite suck
‘ings wo his bother. Pythagoras tepid that he vit iver Was found to be
Without lobe, Alexander asked hav what he thought this sipnifed, and the
<ivine plied, "Something very serious” (7.184,

why


Page 232, Instance 1, Class: Text
to both the island Icarus and the Icarian se” (7.205) Could Alexander have
‘een thinking of his ow fatal scent?

Tn the spring of 323, while approaching Babylon, the king was told a
sconcenting sory that has als been pase on to us by Aistobuls dough
‘Aman Itconcens Apollodorss, one of he Companions who had been Ie 0
command the king's woops in Babylon while Alexander marched toward India
Sd who was aow wih hm again at court He had become concerned over the
Severe punishments being issued by the king to those accused of
‘aladministation He wrote f© is bother Pythagoras, divine. 10 inuite
shout his own fate. Pthagors, who was in Babylon a the tne, wrote back 10
{sk who twa hat he feared so much athe reseed o divination, Apallodorus
‘epled that twas Alexander and Hephsestion,

"The fist sctifice was made concerning Hephaesion, Pythagoras found tht
{he victin's liver had no visible lobe, an ominous pocen. The seer epated this
Jina sealed ltr to his bother, who had moved with the cour to Ecbatan, and
‘vised tha there was noting to fear fom Hephaestion because he would soon
‘he gone Ironically, this infomation i aid to have atived in Ecbatana on the
day before Hephaestion ded.”


Page 232, Instance 4, Class: Text
Another victim was then sacrificed with Alexander in min. Once moreno abe
‘Was Visible Rather than Kep this news to himself, as bis bother probaly
vised, Apollodrus decided that he had baer inform Alexander "with he ie
{oF showing loyalty in higher degree to the king by advising im wo beware in
fase any danger came upon him at this ime” (7.18.3). Given his concer over
the reports of Alexander's tational behavior, Apellodors was aking no
chance,

“Alexander thanked Apollodrus for his report (which was apparently lacking
in dea, and when the king entered Babylon, he made a point of asking
Pythagoras the specific nature ofthe sign that had prompted him to waite suck
‘ings wo his bother. Pythagoras tepid that he vit iver Was found to be
Without lobe, Alexander asked hav what he thought this sipnifed, and the
<ivine plied, "Something very serious” (7.184,

why


Page 233, Instance 0, Class: Text
{Ul 19.420)
‘Rather than expressing ange a his gvim news, the king paid his sespects 19
Pythagocas for his candor Alexander was probably thinking of the same
‘phenomenon as tepvted by Euripides: "No lobe the Liver had. [which
Portended) perilous scathe to him tht loked""” He may alo have been
‘Considering in terms of his tack on the Cosseans, Thetis warning to Achilles
{hati he chose to avenge the death of Pauocls, his own end would son follow

Before entering Babylon Alexander was inercepted by 1 delegation of
(Chaldaans an ancesual priesthood" They told him about a uoublig ral hat
Sgnied that twas mest inauspicious for the king to make his entance atthe
pesent time If he persisted in i, someting mest unfortunate would happen
‘Rlexander was doply toubled over what the priests bad Yost. ut sispicious
so because the Chalseans had been ondeed to vebuild the ep of Marduk
uring Alenander’s ist visit 1o Babylon and may have used those funds for
thei own purposes. Apparel ltl progres hd beea made on the temple, and
they ‘were conceivably atlempting to prevent any discovery af their
embezzlement.”

"Anaxarchs reminded Alexander that he was above the superstitions of oer
Because the king was atnious to ener the ety, he followed the advice of bis
house philosophers. Alexander ssid 0 have gute a ine fom x play (0007
Tost) by Euripides tothe effet thatthe best prophets are those who make the best

TE te king insist on entering, the Chaldaean priests urged that he use the
ceusem approach. Aleander honored this advice but soon discovered that
‘arses inthis area mad such an entance impossible. When this became cleat
‘Alexander's suspicions about the pests were reinforced, Despite further
‘rtesations he entered the city tough the westem gate

“Alexander let Babylon soon after this entrance, probably to circumvent the
fies prophecies of to disprove thom by entering and leaving the ety with
impunity. He went inspect the Bubyloian canal system to determine whether
‘rot the proces of ization could he improved and then retuned tthe ity. AL
first it seemed a hough his visto Babylon was gong favorably. but had omens
continued to mail

“Ain si thi shorty thereafter be sled down the Euphrates int the ake
and swamp distict near the Arabian border, whore the ancient Assyr0-
Babylonian kings were buried Alexander was serving ax seer, guiding
‘one ofthe ships between the royal graves, when the bveze caught his wide-
Trimmed at and card i ito the water. The royal diadeneaibbon tht was
‘wound around his ha detached and stuck to a ed

“Anxious te of service to the kinase swam to reeve the ribbon bu
thoughtlessly ted i around bis own headin oxder to preven the material fom
‘ocoming wet Becabse the purple and white eboa was emblematic of royal
this event was inteypeted as an omen by the sees. Adian says that most


Page 234, Instance 0, Class: Text
authorities claim that the king rewarded the retriever with a talent and then
Teheaded him on the advice of those who insisted thi it was the taditonal
punishment for such a reach of propriety Avsobuls contends thatthe sal 8
Phoenician, received a talent and’ was Mogged (aot executed) for his Le

“Another portent occured after Alexander's return to Babylon.” While
engaged in incorporation of atonal Iranians into his ry, Alexander became
‘hist and et the tvone to quench his this Everyone stood up when the King
‘departed and an obscure man avid himself ofthe opportunity to pass hugh
the crowd and sit onthe throne. Those peseat watched ia diselie, while the
feunuchs attending the Uuone beat thar bests and faces iualisicaly in
testimony ofthe fat that they had witnessed an unspeakable offense. Alexander
ftdeed the man pu to the rack to determine wheter he Was involved ib
‘conspiracy. Accortng to Arian, the mun would say nly tht the idea ad just
‘Somn to i, Pltrch tls us tat this man, ned Dionysius, claimed that be
‘was commanded 10 do 50 by the god Suapis (see Below) The sees were
‘woubled over the inuuder’s tague explanation and pevaled upon the ing 1
execute him,

Pluarch says tht Alexander's “confidence now deserted him, he began to
eieve that he had lost the favour of the gods, and e became increasingly
suspicious of his fiends” (4.1) He continues by saying thatthe ing “bad
‘come so much obsessed by his fears ofthe supematral apd so overought
an apprehensive in is own and. that he interpreted every strange or unusual
{ccurence. no mater ow val, as «prodigy or potent, withthe result hat
{he palace was filled with sootsayets, sacicers, purrs d prognostieatrs.
lunreasoning dread filled Alexander's mind with foolish misgivings. once he had
‘ocome a slave to his fears” (1.1-2). If isi so, Alexander must ave been
divon to distraction by ater sepert mentioned in Pluusch, of a tame donkey
inthe King's menagerte, perhaps crazod by dscase, which tacked the most
Fowmidable ofthe royal ons and kicked itt death

the day

of your deat

19.408)
‘THE DEATH OF ALEXANDER (23 BC)
Ain and Plutarch offer similar accounts of Alexander's lst days in Babylon,
land both cite the Royal Diaries a ter source of information,” According 1
this document, on May 29°” the king made his customaty offerings and sacrifices


Page 235, Instance 0, Class: Text
Aer Alexander bd eft his fur and was returning tothe royal sparen,
‘he was approached by Medius of Lars.” 4 Companion from Thessaly. Meds
invited thm to a move inmate and intense deinking bout. Alexander dank
‘oavily at this second gathering. He then setured to his rooms, buted, and slept
‘ntl dinner was served onthe following day. On the 3M be dined with Mes
and drank heavily again but, believing he fet a. fever coming on, bathed and
Slept in the cool bathhouse. By the SIst Alexander had w be vanspoted 0
Titer to make is sctifices,

“Athough the King continued to vie his officers on the upcoming expsiion,
‘no oedeed his iter caied aro the Euphrates othe mre pleasant aosphere
‘ofthe gardens om the east bank At fit his body sesponded favorably the
‘change, He plyed dice with Medius on the following day and mt with his
folic a day Later. But his fever rose once more and his condition began 19
eclne one again. It was therefore thought best to earty him back actos the
river tothe palace. By June 7 Alexander was unable to speak. Over he next 40
Aayshe continued to deteioate

sub

through

the

throat

at

odes:

the

rocker

(a. 991-4)
"The woops, fang thatthe king's death was being concealed by his generals
demanded io oe him. They were permitted to parade past him in single Ble
‘Although he was still sea, Alexander raised his head and used his ees 1
‘acknowledge the men. Five of his officers and two Gresk sees, we ate tld
Slept inthe temple of Saaps on the night of June 9. They asked athe temple
‘if the king shuld be bough hee, but were told that it would be bes to leave
‘him where he was. He ded a evening approached on June 10. month rs short
‘of his hy thin bitsy, notin the mid ofa violent encounter or displaying his
‘mata virtue, but fail and inglerously disabled."
what
expected
‘a. 1391)
“The allusion to Sarspis inthe Royal Diaries is thought by some scholars to be
anachroniic” There is no otber evidence of the cults existence during
Courtesy www pdocokstree.


Page 235, Instance 1, Class: Text
After Alexander had left this affair and was returning tothe royal apartments,
he was approached by Meus of Laisa a Companion fom Thesaly. Medius
invited hi to a more innate and intense dking bout, Alexander drank
heavily at his second gathering. He then rtumed to his rooms, bathed and slept
unl diner was served on the following day Oa the 30th be dined with edits
and drank heavily again but, believing be flea fever coming on, bathed and
Slope inthe cool bathhouse. By he 31st Alexandr had to be vanspoted oa
Titer to make is sctifices,

“Athough the King continued to vie his officers on the upcoming expsiion,
he ordered his liter cared across the Euphrates tote mote pleasant atmosphere
of the gardens on the east nk. A fit his body responded favorably tothe
change. He played die with Medius on the following day and met wih bis
offices «day ler. But his fever tone once noe, std his condition hepato
decline once agai. It was therefore thought best wo cary him back aevss the
tver tothe palace By June 7 Alexander ws unable speak, Over the nest 0
days he continued wo deteriorate.


Page 235, Instance 3, Class: Text
(Ba. 991-4)
"The woops, fang thatthe king's death was being concealed by his generals
demanded io oe him. They were permitted to parade past him in single Ble
‘Although he was still sea, Alexander raised his head and used his ees 1
‘acknowledge the men. Five of his officers and two Gresk sees, we ate tld
Slept inthe temple of Saaps on the night of June 9. They asked athe temple
‘if the king shuld be bough hee, but were told that it would be bes to leave
‘him where he was. He ded a evening approached on June 10. month rs short
‘of his hy thin bitsy, notin the mid ofa violent encounter or displaying his
‘mata virtue, but fail and inglerously disabled."

what
expected
‘a. 1391)
“The allusion to Sarspis inthe Royal Diaries is thought by some scholars to be
anachroniic” There is no otber evidence of the cults existence during


Page 236, Instance 0, Class: Text
Alexander's lifetime, Nevertheless, according tothe Diaries, seven men from the
‘ings retinue lee ina temple clearly identified as that of Sarups in the hope
‘hat their vigil would have a saluary effect oa the King. Bosworth offers the
trative hypothesis thatthe reference pertains wo anew Egyptian cut associate
‘with healing hat combined the warship of Apis, te sacred bul (aciied toby
‘Alexander at Memphis in 332), and Oss the Egyptian god ofthe undewodd”
This ole as pharaoh Alexander was a living Horus who would fase with Osis
at dea, Ishould be mentioned here ht according to Heodous, the Egypians
‘uated Osis with he Geck go Dionysus"

"The authenticity ofthe Royal Diaries as bee called into question by some
‘modern authoriies and accepted by eters. Recently Badian and Bosworth have
offered leamed atguments to challenge thir legitimacy, and Hammond bas
Srgued forcefully for thee reliability.” Some scholar contending that the
‘dcuen i  forgery, claim that ic was writen to camouflage the existence of &
aha of leading officers who poisoned Alexander." The mest common version
ofthis story (in Putareh’s account is that Cassander (Antpater's eldest son,
‘who had only joined Alexander in early 323) wansprted the poison court, and
‘is bre, folaus the royal eupbeaer mined i with he hng's wine.”

Plutarch writes that atthe ume ofthe king's death noone suspected Such &
plot, but when the story cirulted five years later it was readily belived by
‘Alexander's mother, who ad the grave of fla dg up and his ashes seated
to the wind." Oljmpias, of couse. detested the house of Amipater and needed
‘no confirmation of a charge that in fat, she may have devised hese
[Nevertheless significant that Alexander, who took an active intrest i
‘materia medica apd was extremely suspicious of eet by this ime, a6 fa as We
[Know never used this question insl. Furthermore, i clique of ofcers had
tau conspited to poison the king they were clearly temping fate by placing
their ust in an agent or method thu let Alexander ive for such protracted
Tength of tie. Past experience had demonsted that conspistors could easly
‘come undone by ther own pots,

Diodonis ells us that Alexander bal become so weak by the evening of June 6
‘athe ened hissignt ring overoPerdices, the most influential of his marshals
‘otha he could conduct nscesary business.” This was the same man who bad
helped Kill Pausaniaschiteen years eater. had participated in the undoing of
Plots, and ad tied to retain Alexander during the king’ conflict with
CCleius. Perce’ name aso appears on the st of those who bosted inking
fates forthe king during his recent stay ip Ecbuana, and he was the mak
chosen to escort he embalmed aly of Hephaestion back 10 Babylon
‘Nevertheless wen asked to whom be had lft his kingdom, Alexander
according to Diodorus, dd at designate Pcdceas, but instead whispered. "To
the stoagest (17.1172.


Page 237, Instance 0, Class: Text
living:

and

be

song

UL 1890-1)

Some detils of Alevander’s lst days ate contained in accounts apt fom but
consistent with tbe outlines suggested inthe Diaries. All ersons pint to an
fxcessive consumption of alcohol, with Aman refering to. Alexander's
“dunking fa into the nigh” (7.241), Most writers mention Meds’ party. which
‘was appareiy a small gatering of twenty men" An unnamed sauce cited by
‘Ain fers o Medius a "one of his mos tasted Conipanions that ie” (7
24.4," This Thesalin, who is named asa trearch ofthe foil that sailed
owen the Ihelum, but who was not cdberwise associated with any military
‘esponsibits, eens to have been a close fiend and favorite drinking patnet
fof the king. Pua refers to bim asa "ade and skilled master ofthe coi of
faites that danced attendance on Alexander, and were banded together against
all good mea” (M@or6S0), Plutwch rejects some of the damatc details of
‘Mediu party teprte elsewhere, but he des include a reference in his tjcton
to a shyptay (the heroic cup inked with Heracles) wielded by Aleander in the
company of Mediu."

"Epps lls us that at his lst inking party Alexandr called for a 6quart
cup. the cup of Heracles" Ater dining om i and thus eferig a subline
‘example of Ketéayi's “intersection of the Dionysian and heroic spheres,” he
‘ale the healt of Protea, the son of Alexander’ childhood mune Lance and
{he nephew of Cletus. Despite the cscumstances of his uncle's death Poteas
‘emained a favorite ofthe Ling and Was, as Bosworth tells us, °a famous drinker
‘who by a cusous twist of fate inspted Alexander to perform his last and fatal
feat of drunkenness"

‘rots, whose inking prowess had made him a fk Hero among fellow
‘Macedonians took the huge vessel recited the king's paises and dank dept.
to everyone's applause. Shorlytheteafter, Praeas called forthe same cup once
‘more and repeated the toast. The king then nsised on another tu atthe heroic
up himself "Alexander wok and pulled a it bravely but could not hold out
‘on the contary he sank ack om his cusion and et the up drop fra his hands,
‘As vel, e ell and died, because, as Epippus say, Dionysus Was any
athim for besioping his native city. Thebes."


Page 238, Instance 0, Class: Text
(Ba, 632)
Diodorus lisus that Alexander was called avay from the celebaton in honor of
[Newchus to 4 Dionysiae comus in Medias’ quires. "There he drank much
‘unmixed wine in commemoration ofthe death of Heracles, and finaly fling &
Tug beaker, downed it at «gulp. Instaly be sieked aloud as if smiten by &
violent blow and was conducted way] by his Finds (Companions. who ied
‘him bythe hand back wo his partments” (17.117.1-2) Alexander's cambedains
‘hen put the king 10 bed and Kept him under close observation. The pain
Inctetsed and physicians were called in, "Noone was abl to do anything bepful
and Alexander coatinued ia great discomfort and acute suleing™ (7.1173).
te must die
inhis own house
of
pita
Srkness
1 13.667)
‘Cour physicians, who were often held responsible forthe premature demise of
king, prudently declined to offer any opinion inthe case. They were in an
‘uneolable positon. Should she King survive and hora suspicion tat he bad
‘een mistreated. dere would be «pice to pay. Alexander’ case bove a siking
resemblance to Hephoeston's, and war unlikely that anyone at cout bad
Foygonen the recent example of royal justice when it came w medial
smalpeactie
“Asobuls, cited in Platrch, states explicitly that Alexander “was seized
with raging fever. that when he became very hist he drank wine which mae
‘im delisious and that he died (75.6).
L
blaring
the
eavens
(Ba. 018)
Alexanders insistence on wine (probably chilled) 1 sake bis parched palate
‘when potable water was available sa fis fling. Iwas axiomatic in Greek
‘medical practice to prohibit wine whenever a fever developed: During


Page 238, Instance 2, Class: Text
Diodorus lisus that Alexander was called avay from the celebaton in honor of
[Newrhus to 4 Dionysiac comus in Medias" quares. "There he drank much
‘unmixed wine in commemoration ofthe death of Heracles, and finaly fling &
Tug beaker, downed it at «gulp. Instaly be sieked aloud as if smiten by &
violent blow and was conducted way] by his Finds (Companions. who ied
‘him bythe hand back wo his partments” (17.117.1-2) Alexander's cambedains
‘hen put the king 10 bed and Kept him under close observation. The pain
Inctetsed and physicians were called in, "Noone was abl to do anything bepful
and Alexander coatinued ia great discomfort and acute suleing™ (7.1173).


Page 239, Instance 1, Class: Text
Hephacston's extended illness Alexander recognized this piacipe himself and
sought unsuccessfully to ensure hat it was enforced

Your

blasphemies

hive

sade

you

‘ina

(a, 502)

‘Under the cicumstances nove ofthe atending physicians fl secure enough 10
semind Alexander of the inadvisabiity of his egues, to make any ater 1
‘even him from gulping down the wine. If we fllow this version, which is
‘uly designed to convince the reader tha the dining acumed esuxe of the
fever and was not its cause, we ae peseted with a lconie description of acute
lotol witha” All versions f the even ar hauntingly reminacet ofthe
eat ofthe king's alter ego

‘The god

will

suid ws there

with

ro elfrt

pat

(a. 194)

‘There is, however, a general aprement that Alexander died of some sot of
seas. Schachormeyr suggests leukemia,” and Engels form of tala
‘which was contacted y the king when be sailed dough the swampy regions of
the lower Euphrates. Engels states thatthe King’s condition was aggravated by
‘is overindulgence in wine.” Badian sas, "Immoderate feasting. 10 which
patculary in his lst period of his fe, e was in any ease given, ibe caused
the disease o acetate it and on 10 Jane 323 Alexander ded, after (ve ate
fold) the gods bad ffused to help him... He cerunly died of dase
undiagnosale 1 us."

scenain Dionysus

‘whoever

he

may


Page 240, Instance 0, Class: Text
[Not long before Alexander burned down the palace at Persepolis, Astle was
[ting the finishing touches to his celebrated theory on the nature of aged.
‘The pllosopher suggested thatthe protagonist of sucha work should come fom
4 distinguished fly, be virwous (dough aot entizely 50), suffer ftom a basic
{ror in judgment, undergo a revelatory experience of some sot and move fom
Ihppines to misery.” Alexander, who iheied an impressive lineage, began 1
exhit some of the later characteristics seven years before his dea As be ay
feverish and dying in Babylon, Alexandr could be seen a a"tragi hero” in is
own ight

‘What playwright might be move useful in examining Alexanders credentials
asa “tac hero" than Euripides.” whose plays wete of pula interest to the
‘ing? Furthermore, which ugedy could be more suitable foe explning parallels
in Alexanders if than the Bacchae, which the King binwell quoted with
uosity? Admittedly, Alexander, who enjoyed being likened wo the hero ofthe
Thad, would have winced at being compared to the hapless king of Thebes
[Novethless, he was jst s much a Pentous as an Achill.

Tike Penhous, Alexander passionately nurtured his own feputation and defied
any seal or imagined abstacles nhs ath. The Macedonian king was gi ia his
Scatlook and immature in his elatonshps with ce people. Alexander's
fbsession with conspicuous accomplishment and his preoccupation with
easurances of his uniqueness spoke of fundamental insures They were
fevealed eatly in bis fear of Being depeved of sucient oppostnity 10
emonsate is exceptional sil apd later by a gnawing anuety tha someting
‘might happen thit would. sin his accomplishments, The gest watior
‘Compensated fr his fesings of inadequacy tough acts of eekess bravado, but
‘is teifying anger belied the unslied image he wished to project.

Determined to astound contemporaries and awe Ture generations With his
tuigue arte, Alexander exploited mankind and god with releless
perseverance, Inthe proces, his hybris offended a deity capable of revealing and
xpisting monal deficiencies with aul brtly. Dionyus chose wine a the
"ebicle wough which he would unveil and magnify the defets ofa blliant man
‘who was spitualy ind

“AtTist the grand elixir provided Aleander with a welcome reeat fom the
listing aspects of wey, but eventually it came his most xia problem,


Page 241, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘When Hephstion, the king's beloved comrade and alter ego, drank himself to
deat during a festival in honor of Dionysus, his end foreshadowed imi fate
for Alevandet. Whatever revelations the hing culled fom the death of his
“second self were son losin a moras of bloedshed and drinking

Dionysus dd nt stoop to mundane revenge He prepared Alexandet fr the
ssertce by permitng hin to attain te sucess he sought, The rub ly in the
Victor's inability to tolerate pospeity and enjoy his achievements The feats
themselves hd begun to take onthe tedious quality of routine. This feling was
accompanied by an unsetling sareness tht there were those Who remained
Uimpresed with his accomplishments, regurles of their mugnitide. In
Babylon Alexander “ws at an ute lows to kaow what be should do duting the
‘est of his le” (PMor 2074). Unable wo envisage a palatable alternative, the
<Usconsolate king revealed iat plans fora conquest ofthe Afabian pens
‘Unaware of his own shortcomings, he continued to seek external salons 10
ineral problems.

Inthe end, Aleander ike Ponthous, displayed an uncanny resemblance this
vine adversary. Thus, in the poignant nae ofa fe hat blended tumph and
‘waged, Alexander untigl flied the role he had played with consummate
‘Sil fora ifetime that of his own worst enemy.

“An example te all men


Page 242, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Tomb I at Vergina (see Chapter 1) held 28 silver, clay, and bronze vessels used
to old wine, amoag them a representative miscellany of ancient Greek inking
cups! apa distinctly Dionysia (camaro, several of the garden variety
(esx Wo without handles (eae) that feature embossed Figures inside at
{he Dtom: and a cup customary associated with Heracles and heroic dining
(alyphos), Manolis Andonicas, who discovered the Royal Tombs, specultes
‘hata paticularly lage vesel found (phate), which ional associated with
ations, might have been wielded bya devout sulle “who got bored emptying
‘he dainty Lite vessels designed for move estained and dignitid rinking”=

Tn the sume tomb there wete fur jas funocoe) Bouin the Grock woe foe
wine fines, a bucket (st), Wo nustalyloag and mastow jars (amphorae)
that Andronicos says may have held a rae and delicate vintage’ a mixing bow!
(eraten, abd small ug~all of which could be used for wine. A spoon ade,
fdstrainer were ls in evidence

“The silver oimochoe rom this group ate al embelished with intresting heads
of Silenus. a seasoned veteran in the mythological entourage of Dionysus I
lassicl Greek at Silenus i usualy depicted asa str grown old. Says ae
foflen porwayed as eadant with Wine, while Sen ae likely to be amusingly
‘drunk! The pysieal effets a his exacting vocation ae often evideat in the ie
face puliness, enlarged beasts, and distended stomach of the aged say

"A bead of Silenus on one ofthe alveroinochoe froma Tomb It depicts the
‘ary stendant of Dionysus witha bleted ook, receding hiling and hin of
‘esta atibutes° Another Sileus, pesled athe bottom af a ea, exemplifies
Yeats of devoed service to his mast. He pets up a any diaker who bas
‘tsned his cup with one eye hall-cloved and the glaed look of ped Senta
Claus®

Dionysus was also found grciag Tomb Ilia his mortal dimension. An
exguisite ivory carving shows a beadless and feminine Dionysus in front of
fl, siting quite casually on afock formation deaped with a panthers skin”
‘This idealzad young Dionysus is situated directly across fom 4 Silents whose
‘hutsh visage belongs in bod the anal and nan realms. The panthers skin
his st fury dweling undemeuth the sive serenity of Dionysus. Panthers,
Toopars, lions, and bulls provided ephanous vehicles fora god capable of
obscuring the Borders between man and eas.


Page 242, Instance 2, Class: Text
Appendix A
The Royal Tombs


Page 243, Instance 0, Class: Text
Pan, the gout-man, god, and companion of Dionysus, was also provided
lodging inthis tomb. Two youthfl Pas are in evidence a the base of small
‘amphora, and an older bead of Panis atached below the handles ofa handsome
‘onze lantern. On the amphora the two young Pans, sppesting human except
for tiny homs prouuding fom ther Totcheads ae depicted ab joyous and
cheerful’ On the lantern, however, we Sc a prim and menacing Pas capable of
Inciting pani o cresting pandemonium. Here the metamorphic Pani en in
fis animal cast”

"The other inact tomb at Vergina, refered toby Androicos asthe “Prince's
‘om (Tomb I}, contained ab impressive miniature ivory rele of Pap. Here
Pan appears athe human but geatTooed playing his pipe and leading a mide
ged bearded man and young woman ia some ype of ascent This bearded ma,
fethaps humanized Silenis, perhaps an inate of the Bacchiceul, wicks
‘what appears o be the scred tf of Dionysus (hy) and wears an inbrious
‘ile "Tonb IV also preduced eit heads of 4 youthfl Pan atthe bat of
Sera calves and ike Tomb Ith equipment necessary for symposium


Page 244, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The following induction and chart ae epeine visually as they appeared in
(O'Brien 19800:94-9, 1980¢:3-5. Fam grateful to the editors ofthe Annas of
Seholarship nd the Drinking and Drug Practices Surveyor fos permission 19
Include this matral inthe present volume.

"We know tat Arist insted Aletande in Homer, andthe philosophers
obubly also responsible for arousing Alexander's interest in Aeschylus,
‘Sophoces, and Euripides. Beyond these works, and few oers lst or mine),
‘we may be reasonably certain thatthe king was familia with the writings of
Pindar, Herdus, and Xenophon. Alexander certaily di nt read these authoes
‘in exder to eck ther opinions on wine drinking or drunkenness Nevertheless
‘having vead them, he Was exposed to the views on these subjects and thie
‘ows convey explicit and implicit messages. These messages ae catalogued in
the folowing chart. The categories summatize most of the fant assumptions
bout drinking in Hellenic culture. They represent conventional wisdom oo the
Subject. Th chat (1) characterizes the messages according to the postive and
‘ogatve effects aibutd 0 wine abd inking: 2) notes wih a Wen one o¢
‘more eategorcal reference is present in x parteuar author's work, and (3)
indicates the source of one specific weference foreach category. The chat is
<exved fom consideration of 77 ciations Of these 603 atbute positive effects
{to Wine and drinking: 117 atsbute negative effets: the semainig ction are
‘eutn.The sources consist of sixty-one works, including al ofthe extant play,
poems, dialogues and histories ofthe authors cited


Page 244, Instance 2, Class: Text
Appendix B
Attributes of wine in Alexander the Great’s
readings


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/ATGTIE/Figure\page_245instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/ATGTIE/Figure\page_247instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/ATGTIE/Figure\page_248instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/ATGTIE/Figure\page_249instance2.jpg]

Page 250, Instance 0, Class: Text
Although Aristotle's ueatse On Druntenness has been lost, bis iret i
excessive drinking and its consequences Is evident fom remarks that are
Scatered doughout his surviving Works!” Unlike the Athenian physician
‘Manesiteus, who viewed Dionysus as another practioner in heat of healing
and emphasized the positive attibus of wine.” Aristo was deeply eoneemed
‘with its harmful effects. The plosopher’ discussion ofthe result of pcipitate
stetion onthe prof heavy drinkers sniipaed our modem understanding of
feu alcohol withdawal This, a8 we have seen, is the same syadiome
“knowingly alluded toby Avisobuus ia his description of Alexander's dealt
(Gee Chapter).

‘What Arstote may ave sa o Alexander regarding wine or anything else is
shoer conjecture. Avistole's basic beliefs were known to echo the maxims
Inscribed stone at Delphi: "Know thse” and "De nahin in excess" Tsecms
unlikely, however, thatthe philosopher's most illustious stadent, who was 50
fassonacly devo to emulating the beois of mythological Ggures, ever
dwelt on the question of who he eally was, and staking a balance between
extents sera to have been anthetiel to his ate


Page 251, Instance 0, Class: Text
Ancient History Ballets
‘American Journal of Archaeology
/ ‘American Journal of Ancient History
‘American Journal of Philology
‘Arcata Makedonia
Sac. AncentSotey
‘Anclent Word
; Anal della Sewola Normale Superiore di Psa, Classe di
LenereeFlosfa
(Classical Journal
(Classica Philology
(Classical Quaterty
(Classica Review
(Classical World
Greece and Rome
: Greek, Roman and Bysantine Studies
, Harvard Sudiesn Clasical Philology
: Harvard Theotopeal Review
Journal of Hellenic Stale
“Liverpo! Classical Monthly
‘ Proceedings of the Afican Classical Associations
; Proceedings of the Cambridge Phiolsical Society
Quarterly Journal of Studies on Alco!
Reve des EndesAnciennes
Ree des Eudes Grecques
ivisa di Floogia ed Tarucone Classica
ieinisches Museum fr Phllogie
Os! Symbollae Osloenses


Page 251, Instance 1, Class: Text
Key to abbreviations of frequently cited
journals


Page 252, Instance 1, Class: Text
Transactions ofthe American Philological Association
Zebuchei fir Papyrolope nd Epigraphik


Page 253, Instance 0, Class: Text
INTRODUCTION TO THE NOTES

Abbreviations for ancient authors and their works inthe following pages (with
the exception of those refered to inthe Preface above) generally conor tothe
Oxford Classical Disionary (Hammond and Seullatd 1978), i-xxi. FGHH
{efers to a ciation from Felix Jacoy’s Die’ Fragmente der gnechischen
“Histrier (oe Bibliography under “Ancient Sources) Epps FGrH 126 F |
‘efes to Fragment | fom Epipps, who no. 126 in Jacoby categorization of
socient authors, Modern authorities ae cited according tothe Harvard (atthon!
dite) system, Thus Bosworth 19880211 indicates p. 211 of the second of
osworth’s 1988 publications listed inthe Bibliography. Dates in the notes and
the Bibliography indcae the latest eton available to me. Thus Gzcen 1991
tefes toa reprint of the 1974 biography of Alexandr by Peter Green. The
BBiviogaphy has bee organized tpl ia the hope that this agement wil
prove advantageous to my aow-professional audience. Al the topics ae Usted
before the Bibliography Heel The disadvantage of this approach ey io the
‘ecasional nccessity to move fom one topic 1 the nex in ode to leat the
enact ference sought

‘Some citations refer o the remarks of editors of commentatrs, This
Amowamith 1968 refers to his tasltion and elton of the Bacchae: Atkinson
1980 to his Commentary on Quintus Curius Ruf: Boswoeth 1980 to his
Commentary on Arian: Baus 1976 or 1983 this edition of Aan: Dodds 1966
to his edition ofthe Bacchae; Goukowsky 1976 to his edition of Diodorus
‘Siculus; Hamton, 11. 196910 his Commentary on Plates Life of Alexander
Rolfe 1914 to his elton of Suetonius; Roux 1970 o¢ 1972 to her eition of Les
‘Bacchantes: Welles 1983 to his eiton of Diodorus Sicuus; Hinder and Wirth
1085 to thir edition of Arian; Yardley and Heckel 1984 to their eton of
‘Quintus Curius Rufs."Th pails forall ofthese works ae tobe found i
the Bibligzaphy under “Ancient Sources” oF “Other Relevant Ancient Works


Page 254, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Bacch, Ht 248-9, 145-6; Soph, Ant 955-6; Eur Ba, passim: D-42.1-54, 25
BO recor vaiton othe go ane [venom oink he god
(contining hs Epes ig Alpaca! Order” Anon, The Gre
‘his a “nad Dionysus” and explains Homer's usage ofthe adjective in regard wo
196813442" Harker 1985-110 “sce the god mel! (Diy) the
‘Anam 1968, wl line cations rf to Way 1930, ther tll ins


Page 255, Instance 0, Class: Text
17 See Ara. Poet M56 all tions and quotations relist Arse re
Ione"; Segal C. 1982375 “Penthew] amma.” 134: “lke Phaeton
[cao tpplysyou who would exept mrt tre he demande
17h woody and eaprctble ublcen™) Winingin Ingram 1946160
Pethew lvelyaogan ofthe ‘exceponl peiiy idl spenoe and
conten defying the conan sno the mae of is wn 2 wl

1 Reposted on stage by 2 Monly nk apd perp ho aymboting a
{ean divine and tm ator tha ie a he eat oh y=

1
‘THE COMING OF AGE IN MACEDONIA
fnowever ngs (2) hat “propel be enantio or et
secabo Ads IP 983 Taped 96660,“ lee el mere det ap
‘he oom pssonta fs Tals MI, 36 pc Ms, 12 pr angi, confoume acces mn


Page 255, Instance 2, Class: Text
1
‘THE COMING OF AGE IN MACEDONIA
fnowever ngs (2) hat “propel be enantio or et
secabo Ads IP 983 Taped 96660,“ lee el mere det ap
he eso rsela Torb perl, 12 er a ein coerms aea


Page 256, Instance 0, Class: Text
at, significa, element della tombs, apparenens di entra al medesimo
ate del
Musgrave and Neave IS: Prag 1990. Sopp of Pip I sep of te
scknowledged Pip Tat the ling ands bt ray (982s, 198,
5 Toss 199025566 emphases the imlicem mate of the evidence belts
‘heypoten 266 hat Tom sonst Pp I guen, Cleopatra ante
‘ont a5 well some ofthe royal parspherais of Alexandr the Great and Tom
1 Ephippus FG? 126 F 1; Ath 3.120e: Ephippus pobubly joined Alexander in
S14 oe Jas 83h Barve 1926.33 Epp) onthe ely
pips sce Haan 1961642 Peston 1960-6
23h Topp. FH 1S F236 Ath 1.38 (Pip splot AS. 10.
{3b plore ikon away] ey for dans ow


Page 257, Instance 0, Class: Text
195s; Kent 17%: Cael! 1978 op. Hammond and Grif 1979: 205-726
Greek ography se Paling 19506

129 Throughout this ext the term “alent” i used wo denote “An ancient weight,
Aleraner lee fm the Pensin esis ws worth 440000
ult meal S1200 [19147 Boar 18525-6536,

38 Hammond and Grif 1979-40 686 see ab Eig 19816, ep 88 fri

36 Beng IBS 189 "Tor lender asin Vater ds gre Vor man rast
‘tr die Reeser in Ops geben hata lene forthe pte ove
(he stent of th spect ce Chater 168
4k. Tok2t6h; Bornsth 198. 250, “Patch step it [Alene
eundon fies] ar work of cieaton,eperingtrars ws nf of
gher clre.Cenimporrics ugh have heen exeaed for hing tht the


Page 258, Instance 0, Class: Text
“Toon royal bose (he wa 4 apherof Pram nd Hera) i oder fo Balp
‘1 Altagh men werent “le mana": oe Hench 198470, “Eaipides in
(be Macca] ped the conep ofthe macnadt ery bt yeti dg 2 be
Ccnfimed te exchve aur of acne te atpation in Wich Was
S's gully pose atthe tin fs [spe] ene a Macedo was
created a expat presente usual [Macedonian] reference ine


Page 259, Instance 0, Class: Text
Sulcus" which explcly links Philp mages wih be poe

(8 Hammond and Grif 197915, 215,

(8 Wikken (1057-260) and Sehchemeye (1973-5678) spec! an epiepoit

1 Hammond and Gri 9795767.

79 P3.34, although Pltarch is somewhat skeptical on the mate; cf. Jal. Val 147
Saeger 1962:120-1: Gren 19S: ef Mame aed Grif 1979: 517-2
‘Guaheie1981-35-6; Vata 198496; Green 1991:54 ef Frsington 1981: 78
‘Sstptons abot Herein elas with Phan i dest


Page 260, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Eggcmoat 19TS:107-16) ascribes the dream to Poles propaga Hughes
PRLS) ni ins ee pase
OUD, 9 a 2277-8 empnizes the mythic mare of te cam
Convincing cis pin the poe of Alexander
16 C124 when this oecured (eraps at Chrones) is problematic:
and Grif 1979:596-60: Cawkwell 1978:144-9; Markle IT; Pritchett 1958
‘Cawkwell 1978: 166-6, Hammond and Grifth 1979:623-46; Perlman 1985, 1986.
IE See Brunt 1976 Ii n. 6 Hammond and Grif 1979-609-10 with a. 1 (610%
12 39418 along with Almac 2 etapa


Page 261, Instance 0, Class: Text
[Alken “genuine underlying Gust what Areas seemed 1 epee
127 Mile, $6. 1973 amend and Grif 1979491-5: Green 199180-2,
bcs wi Ariane of the same Ear for leaf Hochel 197
‘Levi 19774-72-4 emphasizes the difference between what he alls exogamous (©
Olympia) snd endogamous (eg Clea) mares of Pi
137 Bosworth 198821-2 places the vet efore Pips maringoCleps Elie


Page 262, Instance 0, Class: Text
1 See Bere 19261 no, 14 (Haglan, St (New), (Palen) Heckel
13 See Xen Cy: 8410-11 a ell Caper low for Aleander al Nenopboe
Ls. Sec Herve 1936: Han. 627 and Chap 5.39 blo:
Ter 1975; Lier 197837; Hammond 1988792; Renguon 198511216
1926: no, 38 (Aleander of Epirus; Hammond and Grit: 1979: S05: Werner
points ot that personal matives donot exclude aconoplices ad reminds usthat oy
1S Lane For 197423, “Tis acount) may be exaggerate no resin to
soserpl in murdering fray rah who eaten be’ Lar 137
16 The ponbity of Olpie invlbement was acknowledged carer by Bene


Page 263, Instance 0, Class: Text
Philip was "fusamey polygamous: Grea 199-8
+1974:18: Green 1991:95, 103, f Tarn 194851 260-2; Hammond! and Grifith 1979:
2
A HOMERIC KING
25, "The sources atooply indicate that they (lhe Lyncetan tothe) were
Involved teal murder Lew I9TI® ctl pent uty ad
5 Seetlanmond and rif 1979886-7
6 Cavkvell WTE27-6 ammond an Grif 1979208-9, fy 1971


Page 264, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Acta’: brisk! be ted tht thee io fa tiene plc
© GieTuae 592: Dio Cheys. Or. 41-139: Apul Apol. 2224; Berve 19261417 a3
sacred wo evo different gods. Apllo and Liber (Dionysus) are oneal the same

{Socal called Apa whos tah pe mise ae yy

(tater. at gt:

32 C£19210-13; Daan th Gets et ad beg the Daal bis ropa


Page 265, Instance 0, Class: Text
Joes was sary an important prt of Alexanders moan roast Bi

19:11-12. 286-9, "With Xenophon an important npn, he (Aleta

‘Alera he Great ellowed he Copa othe eter al hater el
(63 PLAS; Ephippus FGr#f 126 F 3: Ath 10.434; Alexanders special weatment of
Got Asqoted i Eom 197038.9 (with ait rearansemen.

Sonne with Ore nd ional 198687 90,


Page 266, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Atste's taco o et barra i hey were sil las
Por 5200s repadtoh later se Seba) ITSS2S 632

79) Theophr-in Ath 104353,
rk Haman, 9 19K2S, Badan 1985423, Benton 19851378 Wil
‘Wal 198187) for Aleta’: evo puts sen a competion fr Bs


Page 267, Instance 0, Class: Text
97 Pend was one sub! clever cach w respond to Alexanders gestures By
{Geel pot of ew, simple and agian” 19896 109-11 Bosworth
Tost Gis TOLTTE 8, 480-312 alugh Geen (a) 0 Tope

106 The Lacedaemonians (ie, Spartans) refused to join the Corthin League and

119 See A.1.235; P22 7; D.17242; Hoeablower, 8. 1982:222 (Alexanders adoption,


Page 268, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘POny 198 F 4: Engels 1978: 725-6 tink this with malaria (falciparum) which
Be contd lp sprint oe ia Alexanders deme sea lk,
298-9, 298, “cin Manw [Daros I] der sich cht nur als Pine sm Kample


Page 269, Instance 0, Class: Text
10; Poy. 12.17.1-227, Walbank 1967:364-76; Wilchen 1967: 99-105; Fuller
239 Hughes 1988:170-4 for an informative discussion of his dream,


Page 270, Instance 0, Class: Text
1982:74 “enthone: Badan 9SS-35 m1, “gute ely tt Be was never
(tat Altanier atumed the Kingpin hi rt and dened with aie
187 Sco the sections on “The Death of Clits” aed “The Opis ‘Mutiny in Chapters 3


Page 271, Instance 0, Class: Text


Page 272, Instance 0, Class: Text
svosateny far advanced his lla pst of Daron ad the mesenge
‘red without Raving accompa the na,” 19h. 123, “Aleande
229 PAges 15 forthe bie of Mepaopois see PAgis 32; D. 17.63.1-4; C611
3
‘THE METAMORPHOSIS
13 Muito, 1. 1960, wh alo notes that “Alexander is ewice desribed (im
Phar’ Alesoner aera earome) an impale 24 S73)
Gite of 661) made apna Alundet, dw Be 231 sy at
‘evita: bul utizes Donn in Ath 2b) ole a pape deco
tf esaating elsins: "Tce bso win] ely So mi ore epee
os wohl wich thy cpt in tesco o lve an plese the id
evento ck eyee The eh i tho pices the nih slong
111 Borza 1983-52 citing Ephippus in Ath, 4146.


Page 273, Instance 0, Class: Text
backround ad Grek conta the syst ae Dente 1982 Calan 1982
SRI-K DIT 721.660.5727, Alcan drunk burs dow he pal (9) 528
‘9, Deonysiae Festival andthe death of Hephoestion (23) 323: Babylon(D.17.116.
1213710, ? 148-9:" Ephippus FGPH 126 F 3; TNicobule FGef 127 F 1h
(hee: Number inthe pee text ae higher tan tow foun a Tien 1980

14 Win 197192 “De Quien suchen von immer heklscheren Glen und
ogchites Langenverleans i nde oe Cpr 4 lo) nes Tagen 2


Page 274, Instance 0, Class: Text
20 pips FG 126 5 A 1043, posing hs 6 have ecard 0 Ba
© [etander] was given o hard drinking... for an apologist th es course Was 0 sy
Olgas both sce nd der heavy, pally twa he en of
ei fh cols al Peet se Sti, EF 1953, 1957. 197: Weer
(Thais; Radet 1931-188-9 (197 “Ce fut la premiére epxphanie dionysiagu”)
ote: 2 “Le deus os [remedied an extern] aon en
imgurment mci le dln oysiage des parrot une deo


Page 275, Instance 0, Class: Text
321 n.61; Bengtson 1985:165; Will 1986:98 “Es kann. .keinerlei Zweifel besteben,
1971, 1972:236, who places Agis' defeat 331 see Chapter 2m. 23 above.
{Gat Alennder so wre the an cons Pes eae worn pg ati


Page 276, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘ply cmpheer the hng's acute thesia: Boowert (1966 7)
{Alexander's} eaogoralistence on ttl wahllnged sulocaic power, Hit
eager the hope a donates presen an ate”

(67 P3927; accepted by Turn 1948:1 3902 as suhentie bt rejected by Kaert 1892:616.
“he plot agunst the house of Parmenio™), Wicken 1967-163-6; Hamilton, 3
119-20 with a, 13; Boswoeth 19804:389-67, 1986: 101-4 (101-2, “perhaps best
to conceded he [Pas] fad some arpaty withthe oars thot

1 Arian (3.26.2) tere th proof of Pilots iver the at

77 ©7232: even the apologetic Tan 19461 6 refers a Prmenio’s death a plain


Page 277, Instance 0, Class: Text
93 Steph By Phra: Palo. 3286 S189.

10 7111-28; Mee Epitome 185A. 184-195.
1-17; Sea. Ep. $3.19; De ira 3.17.1 Caer 1892-38-58; Korman 1985:248-31
Aymand 549; Rrowa, TS, 10h: 2869; Pour 19060, 169-70 Instn


Page 278, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Jil declan tht Heese, Father ibe [Dinye aC Pli
‘ould ke nay ele th new vin (Alsander™

TDL Ada: C8211 112615; Pret (521) tha sigh and he Flowing

14 CE Aor 780 and HAL 3.31, "they (Pein oa ages a lo found 3 awe
‘whet th King of Pen ight do sheer be wel”

12 Sec the oes pce hs ie Soph 4 15-45

16 AG's: Cur 26," [Alunde|wondced wheter i wat vine anger at
fer the anaalsacece to Faker Liter [Danan lth apposed eS ws
‘hathe pd anger had splayed ise gat ifr rine was omit

1 A Rh IT

159 For tchgound and penal fe cao probes se 1.138, 7.136


Page 279, Instance 0, Class: Text
prostymesis} might smvolve 3 slight stooping forward ad the simultaneous

onl rstaion lore the nah

Plaarch (S41, cing Hermie sys hat Callthenes quoted Homeric pre
150 Aletnder my hve ot spor case he fe ti ot apy to Clits:

119684:117-19; se Hammond (1950) for a thorough discussion of “the School of
153 CLA4I03-4 and PSS4 forthe view that te youths may ve thot of


Page 280, Instance 0, Class: Text
157 C8820: Perch 55.) ce eter rete by Kae 1892408 and aecepted
(and Diogenes ets (5) cla ht he was kept arn cae cf. iors’
164 For example, Hd. 394, 96-105, 40.4; Seyax PG! 709 F 17; Ant Mee
Metz Epitome 39-45; Narain 1965:187; foe at alternative chrowology tlaing ©


Page 281, Instance 0, Class: Text
4
‘THE AMBIVALENT VICTOR
1 See Chap 3 m. 16L6above: AS. 1-685 A763: Sibert 1965:15-70 fr
(he eopaphy ofthe Indisn expedition: mend 1950-202, “For Alexandr
a at i
5 For the Gymmosophists see A715-6, 22-4: P64 1-658; 5.15.1.63-6, 68; Phister
in regard to these arabes 7
9 Forth ht fhe HiysopesUelam)Rier sce ASR4-18T: PAD. AS: DIT
13 A62 lef D17.896,C8 1445; 1128.7; 8.15.1.33; Pliny HN 6.59; Mets Epitome


Page 281, Instance 3, Class: Text


Page 282, Instance 0, Class: Text
24 Schachemeye 197184 ‘edingunsowe Ubersabevenpte Aecnder von
of An's species and leters,S31 "I te pole Ut A [Ai] Ba
‘Sihoty fr suppring tat on ech xcs AL [Alexander] pe in te nene b

45 622-35, tnd. 197: ef DAT9SS-96,1;C9.3.21-4;8,15.1.17; Mets Epitome 70,


Page 283, Instance 0, Class: Text
{64 Sayer 1966: 164; e£ Xen Cyr. 22-6.
‘located in various places see Hamilton, 1. 1969:113. ees


Page 284, Instance 0, Class: Text
[ST For Haspatas” second fight see Berve 192611 no, 143 Harpaus); Badian 19616:
cp. 13-19 Worthington 18a KGa: Boome 198K: 18-50, 215-20
dren: foe gee and play se Sato 1980
Clvine esse de son the" Boswerth 1OBSS47, "Some of he try. the

10 Ratan 198S79; Wil 1986145, “Feicihkeien, vor lem Orgen und
“Tangles, rt eect Navew dot Depo mn gus igi
Aachen andlager tht ween, ir Zachgelage wade Se und
‘utensich nn evexnenerwsi in aden wed warden tam Beant


Page 285, Instance 0, Class: Text
[Alexander] ever claimed to bea e-incaration of Dionysia now Will 1986;
16 To comtnue Epps Fri 126 Fm waned A S8Te S56: “Alexandr
‘ardots eptd lac abe mcs” Epp testimony ed
Cheer should we Bebe dat pipes, wong skort the King's ah
‘Sout mutes not en of tne made mel slang tock by ly
‘fe Boonoh 1988 215-20) forte lect of Mpls gta Aten
RGrH SLA A 12.539 $40 Phyl nd Agatharchides), ATA 8 6.2


Page 286, Instance 0, Class: Text
137 Hain LR, 1969:195, if his (the mariage wo Parysatis is tue, Alexander wil
ve inode a ink elf wa oh see opal es of esi

158 Badan |1954201) a epard the ere of Maced tera eft hi a
‘opact of Altanders maapower dean of Maredois i olin i Boswer

Las Bulb Sse ao Diop. Lact 512 Steph Byes. Aiea: Reve 1926 I ma

16 Manion JR. 1982:157 “Alexandr exp dcamed respi for he
2; Dinatchus 1.94; Timueus in Pig, 12125 3: Ael, VIC 219, 5.12: Ath 658:


Page 287, Instance 0, Class: Text
157 See Chaper 1 above: hte late sources atest tn Demades” proposal to recognize
Bp. $9.12. Tarn ANAL ISE 9 8S * “

166 On the so-called “mutiny” at Opis see A7.8.1-123: P7118; DATOS, 109.
‘speeches (pariculy Arian’) sce Kernen 1935'158-66, who argues tht the
‘esc sd on Pte Tarn 908 1:290-6 (295, "came gh lem and
tnowedpe robles but coments i Wounded oe: Star 1980,


Page 288, Instance 0, Class: Text
Presse that “Ai ad venti repr of he Ope pecs whch Bega ah
174 Fer the Range at Opis se ATL1L8.9; cf, Pall, 3289 Ta 1985: Badan
16 Sadar a Aniparor QT), however, apes of Anise’ unsymputic
191. Epppas Fri 1267 5 A. 12 5364,
196 D.I7 108mm which dikng aren) Heplneson ak npg” et
197 Green 1991464 Benghen 195-181 “Hopson wat an sine ten Ende


Page 289, Instance 0, Class: Text
(he Beas (A563) er Ops ATID,
engi potion fr you,
© Epitaph 21: Lucian Catan 17-18; Treves 1959; Bickerman 1963; Habit 1970:
211 A7256-8; Hamilton, LR. 1958:157; Vogt 197; Seibert 1972b; Schachermeye|
5
DEATH IN BABYLON
21-6, 3748: Hampl 1983; Andeoti 1957:133-66: Soh 1965, 198:
6 18-62 6 Andis 1959-133-66; Hamp 1953 Schashermey 195,170: 187


Page 290, Instance 0, Class: Text
accepting Hieronynus of Cardia a the source and the pls 2 sical autem:

‘erodotus (3.8) has Diomyats and Aphrodite.

Ephippus FGrif 126F 3 Ath. 104840; Nicobule FGr 127 F 1, FZ; Ath 10434
oY rptome 15-6. ——


Page 291, Instance 0, Class: Text
2215 Leys 19772 (pbalete anon Gro (DLTG TY (472
40 Orth mon copbie” Alexander tar abvlving Kms ofthe respons that
4 Theme fe aged prpant ia Medias psy a ein Ps Call 3.38
43 P7545; Ephippus PGeHf 126 F 3; Ath 10.4340, se also 11 409M; Hanon, LR
|S Epippos POH 126 F A 104K of AGH Macrb, Sat 521.1618

Soir spn Sem fp 23,
46 Bosworth 1988e:115-16; Ephigpus Fr? 126 F 3: A, 1043a-b; Berve 1926: 1
| ppp Fr 126 F 3: A 1043; Nicbule FG 128 2: 1255748

[Alene abused Doman hgh indling 50 Inv ott go gt


Page 292, Instance 0, Class: Text
48 McKinlay 1900233, “Atenee fee tos wine of te Tei in Egypt my
te sly given in fever [Alten BE tay be nen evento fre pe
‘en fry] tag in gnealwine was Sorbie noch ese nce

[2 Engl 19788225, param mali. Tens weshened py onion

EPILOGUE
APPENDIX A


Page 293, Instance 0, Class: Text
stb to Arse thing dashes my be fond i Ai (Pr
ih Ea 12501238) Pol 177% Fre. FOR? Ah 2404, 1.76
3 Avs. (Pr 1 9894: Frag, FBR"


Page 294, Instance 0, Class: Text
General
Reference works
Ancient sources
Diodorus Sicuus
Quins Curtis Ruts
Phaarch
Avian
Jasin
Related texts
er relevant ancient works
‘Moder goneal weasments
Recent collections
Hiswiography
Dionysus
‘Macedonian background
‘The Royal Tombs at Verging
Young Alexander
Asisote
Religion
Mitty
Political


Page 294, Instance 2, Class: Text
Topics in the bibliography


Page 295, Instance 0, Class: Text
“The metamorphosis
India

Deifction
Alexander’ death
Miscellaneous


Page 296, Instance 0, Class: Text
GENERAL
Consult bibliographical reterences in the geneal works and commentrcs of
‘Ainson, Badan, Bengon, Bosworth, Brun, Goukowsky, Geeen, Hanlon,
Hammond, Homblower, Lane Fox, Lauter, Schacherme, Wil and Wish
long wit enties in ange Phiologigne
[REFERENCE WORKS,

“Tesco Ieonographicim Mtoe Clase 1 (al dbl ole) Zar
eve I (1926) Das Alsaneech af posopotraphcher Grange FI Mich
Biker, EJ (1968) Chronology of the Anco Work Mh
(Cary. M1919) The Geographic Barron of Grek and Roan History: Oot
Ditenbergr, Wed 1913-20) Sloe srpionanGraecaran HV. Li.
amend, NOLL and Sell, Habe UBTS) The Oxford Clase! Dictionary
Meizer. (1980) Alcander the Great andthe Grek. The Epirapic Evidence
Nash, A. atd Sal B. (196) Traylor Grascorom Fragments, Siplementon
COtstainen, E1901) Ein dhe Rte Geograph der Alen Welt

“estichen Alernmavisnahat Stat
‘ede (197) La wographe der ren. Pa
Reason fur Ante wn Christen (195068) Sata


Page 297, Instance 0, Class: Text
Roscher WHL ed (1965) Aurfiivticher Leon der riecichen und romischor
Taetraphacker Grade Wastes
‘Team 1.0. 1998) Hino of Anco Geography. Canbi.
Tol MN. (1962 A Selection of Greek Mito Iarpions I Oe
Welingon, 15. (1983) Dinary of Bbhographc ABireviaions Pound othe
‘Stora of Clas Ser nd Reed Dacpine, Wenge, Connects
ANCIENT SOURCES
‘eagmena were arled iio Engin by CA Robinson Je (1953, The ior of
srvived rom th fst century BC though the century AD. They ae iste a
Diodorus Sleulus (second half ofthe fst century BC)
Welles Ce (1985) Diora of Sy VIL Boots XV1-95 and XVI Landon st
‘Cambie, Min, Loch, Geck and glk Wah ots
Quintus Curtus Rufus (est century AD)
Rolle, Ct and ed 1971 1976) Quis Curt, Miss af Aecnder FI Lenton
arn aa (195, 1965) Quite Care: Maxie 1-10 Pai Ba Eatin and
Yardley Ite and Heckel, W. ol (1980) Quins Caniar Rafer The Huo of
‘Alcan Hamann Engh With ote
Atkinson, E980) A Commentary om Q. Cartas Rar Marie lean Magn
Plutarch (second half ofthe st and early second century
‘AD)


Page 298, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Meander Hcmencoorth Eng With ote.
Arvin fest al ofthe second century AD)
rt, PA. tale (976, 1983) Mitr af Alene and Idi Landon and
ano Loh Epa Wate
“ony of under eno Pega a Withee
Justin (a third-century AD epitome of Pompeu Trogus’
‘Philippe Historie rom the Augustan ers)
‘sugar. Teubner Latin. With notes
RELATED TEXTS
Jones, HL te and ed. (192583) The Geography of Sabo IVI Loon ant
{ans Lh Gra Engh Eph VL We,
"En Lee. Tee ton of th Me: Eptome Latin, With te
Won AME a (Te Romane of Ao he Gt Pa


Page 299, Instance 0, Class: Text
OTHER RELEVANT ANCIENT WORKS
(arranged alphabetically scoring tance authors)

Tendon and Carte Mat Loch. Grand Eh

(0989) "Actas Manual of Helene Miaary Tater A New Tran fom the

Avchines (1968) The Sperches of Ascites and e& CD.Adans. Landon ant
Cambridge, Ms Loch, reek sd Engh

Aptos (1921) Apoliadran The Larry ado. LG.Faser. Landon a New
"York Lash Greek nd Engh,

Aputeis (1909 The Apologia and lrda of Apis of Madr, ad. LE Br
‘Oxford. Engl.
‘wih Engin ants

[Atienain (192663) The Desonophse LVI. ae. CBG, Landon ant
‘Cambridge, Mis Lek Gack nd Engh

Denese (1962-80) Demathees. Speeches VIL sabes aLVince CA Vins
sad Eoin
‘London and Caresise Mat. Loch Grok and Enh

rods Sc (1935-61) Diodorus of Sey FV € VAI, andes MGs
(rec and Eaglah Se above fo VI the key volume

pet (1026 The Dicourer a Reporte by Arian he Mana and regent

ups (1919) Eurpies I (lee) an ed ASW. Landon and New Yor
Tsk re nd Engh

(0990) Earp I Racca. ade AS.Way London an Camb, Mans
Tost rec nd Engi

(0968) Eunpuer V (The Bachae| apd W-Anowsmith Chicago ad London


Page 300, Instance 0, Class: Text
rwtins (969) The Sates and The Aqueduct of Rome. CE Bena ant
(thn (1927-8) The Ai igh of ue Gelia Fane LC Rote, Landon nt
he Grek Anthology HI. 195, 1968) al W.R Pon London and Cant,
‘White. Landon and Cambie Miss Leck, Grek sd ago
Tuc Grek nd Eg
(0) Pe Avie fii te aie Mian Laren English,
‘and English
‘Tendon até Cartes, Man Loc. Grech and Enh
‘unt Latin and Eg
Phila (1969) Phibsratu The Life of Apolo of Thana Lt, and
"FCConybeare. Lond nd Cambie, Man Loeb, Crk od ais


Page 301, Instance 0, Class: Text
Pin, (1946) The Odes of Pindar and Sandy, Leon un Cambeige, Mas
Tsk Greek nd Engi

(0960) Pindar The Oder te CMLBowra. Hamandenot Penguin Eng

Plt 1826) Plt, Laer Xft of eo volume ded RBar. London an New
"Yok ack Grek and Engh,

Plarch (1914-20) Parcs Lives I (Comite V (Age VUE (Bane, BC
{Leann a Cher Loon and Came Mas Leck Crek and Eas

(4974) Plena, Stages of Wa, and eR Shope Cag, English
‘Loch Latin and Eng
London and New Yrk, Loc, Latina Engi

Soptoctes (1968, 1961 Sphorte I (Aione) (Ajo) and ed Ft. Lae at
(Cambridge, Man Lot, rec sd Eg

Sela Bean (1809) Stephan Boon eA Meine Geek ith Latin tes
Trin nd Engi

‘Theophrass,(1916) Theophrastus. Engury Feo Plants J. anded. Art. London and

(0961) Theophrae The Character ane INEdmonds London and Cambie,

‘hacjde (1928) Thre Fe ae CESiith London and New Yok Loh.
‘Greek and Engh,

‘alas Mina 1966 Vari Main C Kemp. Steves. Lai

‘elles Patera (1967) Vellas Patera Compendia of Reman Hira
LFW Stipley. London and Cage Mass Lac. Lat ad Ess
"Yok Loc Latin and Eg


Page 302, Instance 0, Class: Text
Xenophon, (1961) Xenophon Anabass Bs AVA in evo volumes) and ol
CL eeson Lendon ad Cambridge, Mas, Loch. Greeks Elk
‘Ghee and Engl,

MODERN GENERAL TREATMENTS

engin Il (1985) Philipp nd Aetaner er Growe. Die Reprinder der

ower, AB (U98Ha) Congest and Empice: The Reign of Alesander the Grea

(Ces, P1953) Alewnire fe Grand ler eras de fasion entre VOcident

Ghotn F-U901) Alene of Macedon 56-128 BCA Hone Bigraphy Bt
Tage.

amino NGL. and Waban, EW. (1988) A History of Macedon 836-167 BCI

amp 11958) Alexander de Grow Cotingn

(DSO) Te Search for Alewander: Boston and Toone

Rena ME (1076) The Astaro leaner New Yok

Sayer, 1.1966) Alene the Great, New Yok
Blcmington In


Page 303, Instance 0, Class: Text
Wa, W198) Aenoter der Grane. Geach Maedoniens I Sate,
RECENT COLLECTIONS

Mecednian Heritage. Washington.
ora, EN (1074) The pact of leaner the Gre ia
Dall HD. ef (1981) Anton Macedonian Sur ix Honor of Charter PEbon
hector, V5) Pols and Inperian,es KJ Soke and A Gra. Zach ant

‘Stata 399-50

‘and R Zoeplfel, Hildeshcim and New York

HISTORIOGRAPHY

‘Anling, WL. (198) “L Fit Aran Neos Xenophon” Epigraph Anta
(Geta) Review of Peanon's The Last Hits of Alexander the Great. Gnomon 3


Page 304, Instance 0, Class: Text
Hates, DAS 1981) Cartan” CO HITS 80

one, B-(1972)-Anians Litany Developmen” CQ22155 85.

((bTE) “Aran and te Alexander Volpe” Aamir Le Grand. Image of rit

(4976 Enos Arian” €0 2611738

{asst Ain andthe Caps Cater A Stayin Methodology” CQ38 255-76

eon, TS (109) Onesies Sl i Helle Hitorogaphy. Berkley

Bea PA. 197) Notes on Aisa of Casandra” CO 2465-8, .
“Chronigue Egypte 30-7

Ege (1979) Unters or Priuriraiion bei. Cri Raa. rr.

"Engon RAM. (196) “sin Poles soy of Alesaner” CQ T9230

‘Fare, F. (1987) “A propos de la composition des couples dans les “Viexpralles’ de


Page 305, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Goukowsky, P. (1969) “Clitarqae Seu!” Remarques sur les sources du live xvii de

amon, 1 (1955) "Thee Panag im Aan” CQ 217-2

Mammen NGI. (SSID) “Some Pages a Arian Concerning Aetanier” CQ 30

(Q98%a) Thee Hitorans of Alewnder the Gre. The Scaled ilgote Authors
iodo stn a Carn, bie

amp, FOS!) “Alenaner der ‘Grae und die ering gesciiher
‘enblceten in der modern ropa." Nowell Clo 691-136

shel W. (1988) The Last Dane and Tetamend of lesander the Great A
‘Prospogrephi Sty: Sates

(av91) "Cur Rafer andthe Date of Cleande's Mision to the Feloponese”

esr 2.81 irom of Cadi Oxford

‘an (1985) "More mensions be Eto Mees.” CP SDSSS-7

ars}. (1892) “Der Biefwechsel Alexanders des Grosse.” Phillogus $1: 602-22.

ernest (1939) De Aleuandreaakte des Kame Palmas on Arypon

rau Reppin C. (1982) "1 foment de Arable nega iio” Bolen de

Tylon, RIL (0973) "loins Accout of Aletanler the Gren A Hier

Mequcen, EL (1967) "Quin Caras Raf” Lai Biography. ed TA. Dory

‘Marin FR. (198) “Quins Cue’ Petetaton of Philip Ahiaeus and Jone
‘Stutgar.


Page 306, Instance 0, Class: Text
Medic, K. (1980) “Das Hild Alsaner des Grose in der Histoire seier ™
Mensch (1953) "Peat her Alexander” Mitra 1227682
Meselac, (1977) De Quelle der grechahenAlexonerrmuns Masih
“Men F.(1950) “Alexandr th ret r Ano te Sop" CPA.161-6
Moss. M1988) Tragedy a pic in Ptr’ Alsander”JHS 108: 893
“ono of Charles Foe HL Del, Theses 25 82
ating, CB (1980 “tars Adapt fi Source Material” JS 100: 127-40.
{@90te) “Childhood. and Penemliy in Check Ban” Characterton and
‘Robinson, C-A Je (1953) The Histor of Alexander the Great L Providence, RL
(1984) “Prlemy an his vals in his Mistry of Alexander the Grea.” CQ 34: 373-85.
Rabin. C1987) "The Organization and Canpoiion of iodo Bice
‘Raison WZ (1986) “Some Remurks on Soviet Historiography of Ancient Macedonia
‘ai DLT. (1989) “Poe and Meplopot: Pio and the Founding of Alexandia™
{N “Fvar Aran The New Xenon” CABS 8135-6,
{OBS0) Arian of Meme Chapel HAL NC


Page 307, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘on faeces Voce de Quinte Care” AC 3751-88
(0973) “Le jgement Se Quinte Cre sur Alcan! une appreciation ore
(DST) “La Vulgate dane Aron” Zu Aleander dG Lede WH a ics
‘end Schepens Gand Keyser, Ede es (1990) Purpose of History. Sabie ie
‘Grok Matava om he it the 2nd Cones BC. Leven
Wardman, AE. (1958) “Plath nd Alexandr" C0 596-107
pionysus
Aélion, R986) Quelgues grande nthe hie danse Eerie, Pais
‘Amat, PED. (1989) Public and Performance it the Greek Thewer. London and New
ur Erle range de Rome, Para me, 986
Hanus E1982) “The Deine Dake.” The Journal of Rein and Prchical
err C08 (IT) Imager totes or Grice anciemne, Laan


Page 308, Instance 0, Class: Text
Bremer. IM, (1976) “De interpretatc van Euripides’ Bacchen.” Lampas 9:2-7
(1986) ierprttion of Gree Mvtalogy Toews,
Baran P1985} Directo in Eurpean Crim, Ds, NC
Barker, W. (1977) Orpion andthe Bache Mater Nee Eidnce an OU Problems
(0983) Hama Necane The Antropol of Ancient Greek Secrifes!Rwa and Mh
“dunn” Sain nore Vitor De Fae. Nagler. 121- 32
(Came J (SKE) “Qucgues mots ences so les Bacnies Earp” Deloeeque
(Cao, C1957) “Traveninements dhonysngen” Imager ef soeéés or Grice
(ODSi) Teo egal: The Cal of he Great God at Samtrace. Le
Ter soccer ancenner Actes del able ronde organic par Eee Panaie de
Deasch H (1960) 4 Pschamale Sy ofthe Mh of Donnas and Apa. New


Page 309, Instance 0, Class: Text
everes, .(1970) “The Paychsheray Sone Earp’ Bache” JMS 35-1

Dib, A U981) Der Prolog der "Racchen™ und dhe anike Uereranpphare dex

iter H. (1983) "Epis" Final Pane: The Bacae.” Oxon! Readings i Greek
Tred of ESepa. Oxon 357-89.

Dover KJ(1978) Grok Popular Moray nthe Times of Pat and Arita Bee.

Durand, JL. and From Dacre, F (1982) “Wels, figs, sage asour Se
Dionne Arcatgigue 1108

‘Eating, PE and Kou, BMW. (195) Die Cambridge History of Casal Lteraare
"Leunbeg, :

Ese, H. (1984) Studie am Prog der eurpideischen Tras. Bevin and New York.

Fuel LB (19TD The Ca of the Geek Ste. Cea.

Ferg. J. (972) Companion o Grek Trae: Austin, .

ol AB. and Mazar, (197) Trace athe Tacs New Yee. 32-58

Fomenone 1959 Pst A Stdhof he Dep Myth and i Oni. Behl.

aes ing. PEC: 199) Metamonhasisin Grek Mh Ox

(Ghiron Bstagne P1978) Rechercher sr les acter dante Grice ang. Pai

Gil. "C. 1990) “The Character Penoalty Dustin” Chartersaton and

Cima. M1980) The Godse nd Gods of OU Europes Mv and Cl Images


Page 310, Instance 0, Class: Text
Go S198 Reng Greek Tragedy. Cambs.

(ODS6) “Orpbom A Pst Among: Men” Inerprtaions of Greek Mitte.

Guin, JP (1968) The Tragic Paradox Mish and Rul a Grek Tages

athe 5.198) “Trains Gack Conceptions of Character” Characterisation nd

{1978) “Prologue Prophecy and Plt in Four Pays of Euripides” AJP 99:277-302,

rion, 3E. (1922) Prolene tothe Sud of Grek Religion, Cambie

(1982) “Changing Dionysiae Lenten" Jewish and Chistian Sef Definition 1, es Ber
‘Stee Memory of Karl Hale. Cho 69-9.

(a9siy Die Gator Grechenkands Tir Md Wandel der Reiinovsencha

atman 1972) Te sth of Anais. rant

Maker, Head Maes, M-I960) Sacre: lr Nate and Fanon W-D. Hl,

‘Maphes, D984) “The Deans of Alexander he Gea” The Jour of Pschhitory

Kame, JC. (1960) "Myth et rat dane Tecate Earp” eins Hardt


Page 311, Instance 0, Class: Text
ery, C. (1076) Dimon Archetypa age of Indentactibe Lfe te Mani
(0999) Te Gn ofthe Greek. Cancten God

Kis, GS. (1983) The Nate of Greek Mis. Harmondsworth

‘Las, 111958) "Praence Uncovered: The Paycholgy of Eas” Penteas” C65
‘Lefkowitz, MLR.(1981) The Lives of the Greek Poets Balismone

ei, V- (988) “Eads ales #77 81-897-501" HS LOLS

‘McGinty, P. (1978) Inerprettion and Dionysos. Method inthe Sudy of @ God. The
‘Meagher, LE. (1989) Moral Vision: The Wisdom of Euripides. New York.
Meselacs ROSS) De Hien de Donon Stat

‘Neuere. M0987) Whose Lahr Docs Penton Fear (Ee Ba 882)" C9 37207
Nicwsce,F. 1956) The Bit of Trae and he Genealogy of Moral t F oling
‘usom, ML. (19ST) The Dini Montero the Meena nd Roman Age Land
O'Coaor Viner LAME (1957) Aap of Human Sacrifice i the Tragedies of


Page 312, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘story of Religions 2081-11.
rane 1 (18) Eurpide Racca. The Play and ts inc. Leiden
‘te WF (1965) Doms Ath ond Cae RP losing a London
Phar, 1 (1930) “cosogapbie es “Bachan Earp” Reve Belge de
Pickard Cambridge, A.W. (1962) Diyram Tragedy and Comedy. Oxford
(QDS8) The Drama esta of Aone eds Goal nd DAL: One
‘ceamiquesiae » figures abies” Images et scr em Grice ancien
(Quan, 1913) De Bacco ab Aleand Atte in Axi Minor Clo, Hale
(Goma) “Fear ant Sullering in Acsciylar and Ener” Ono Readings Greck
Trped o& ESeat. Oxon 905.
(0955) Hondook of Greek Mthoiogy New York.
Rovenneyer (1953) The Mato Tragds. Ati
ows, G.(1956)~Testionia Depics I: Not sar Hymne Homie 3 Alon, vers
(1976) Deiphes, Son oracle ses deus Pats.
‘Seaford, R. (1981) ‘Dionysia Drama and the Dionysiae Mysteries," CQ 31: 282-75.
{Gos7)Pemtheu”Viss Bocce 918-22" CO 37-76-8 .
(0985) "The Bachar a Metaagdy” Decne arpa Crim oP. Baris


Page 313, Instance 0, Class: Text
Sepa Ec (198) Oxon ings in Grek Toned Oxford
Sepa, (1983) “Eanes: Pot of Pardon” fn Readings Gre Tage
Stereos E (198) "Whove Laaher Dos Penthes Fear?” CQ 362467
Stora A (1982) Dionysos at Delp The Pent ofthe Sith Temple of Apo
Wastngion 205-27.
“Topi, OP 1979) Grek Taped Acton. Behe
‘Phloophites Scholes to Ariston Panepsemioa. Theses 4216
elles. P(97S) Inne Dramas A Say of Ewnpder” Meth and Meaning
\Vollralf, W. (1927) “Le pean deipigue a Dionysos” Bulletin de Correspondance
‘Wasson, R, Gordon, A and Cat, A (1578) The Raa of Eleass:Uaweling the Secret of
Weber TL (0985) The Pot andthe Mask” Clic Drama and it flee New
(0967) The Trager of Euripides: Lodo
‘Wise ML (1980 The Ope Paes Onto


Page 314, Instance 0, Class: Text
Wiasngon gram. RP ID'S) Eades ond Domus Ax Interpretation of the
"Recher, Cambeg,

‘Wonkbere. 196) "The Palace eo gion in Eudes" Ata Antigua Academie

MACEDONIAN BACKGROUND.

‘Ayman A. (1950) “Sur atenble mcddbenne” REA 521157.
Bite Shara and EN on Wagon. 17-30, :
‘Shes nite Epigraphy Histor an Topography: Pingo, 713 .
Preceding ofthe American Pisa Scey L3L2 3.

(0990) athe haw of Obs The Emergence of Maced: neon

asc A (1965) The Helen of the Acie Macedonians. Tess

DSI) “Ealy Macedon” Php of Macedon ols MIB Mavopoain and LD.


Page 315, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Evington, RM. (19SIa) “Alexander the Piles an Penis” Anion Macedonian
‘Stee Honor of Charles Fv ol HL Del Thesis 139-1,
(0983) "The Hseopptial Orgins f Macedonian “Stash” AAS 89-101
{900A Histor of Macedo eC Eig Besley and Ont
(Geena WS (18S) "Te lnrodato of Carus nto the Area King Ls” GRAS
(1986) “Herodotus andthe Foundation of Argead Macedonia" AncW 13: 117-22.
{a9sRa) “Amt ante Poicl Sty of Arzead Mice" Ac W 1635-4,
(Gade, M1835) nor of Ode Bare °
inl” ANUS 67
(0912) ator of Macedonia. Oto,
amined. NGL and Gelli GT. (109) A Mtr of Maedona Oxo
sfmann 0. (1905) Dic Makedone: ie Sprache wd ste Vestn. Gtnge.
‘Manon 0.(1984)"Quelcs om de emer Marine” ZPE'SS.13-6,
Rakin A and Toursuoglo Jes 1985} pirate Ano Mateos 1. Aes
“Tuak, AB. (988) Ancien Broo, Provoograph and Sait thes
Tranes of Ancient Macedonia: Archaeaopcel Musca of Theszaloi (197)
‘THE ROYAL TOMBS AT VERGINA
Adams, (198) “The Lames rom om It Vergina. Archaolia New 12
(0978s) “Regal Treasures fom a Macedonian Tom” Nasional Geographic 1S: 84-77
World At ofthe XI ternational Congr of Cant Arhacloy Lon 38


Page 315, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘THE ROYAL TOMBS AT VERGINA
Adams, (198) “The Lames rom om It Vergina. Archaolia New 12
(97H) “Rope Treasures Macedonian ork National Gengapie 1S: S477
World At ofthe XI ternational Congr of Cant Arhacloy Lon 38


Page 316, Instance 0, Class: Text
(498) “The Roya Tombs at Vein” The Sear for Aen: Boston 26-38.
{OBS1) "The Royal Tombs Agar Vesna” Pla of Macedon ee MB. Hatzopoalox
{QB85)"A Macedonian Skull” Nealeter ofthe Ansett of Ancient Miri 33-4.
‘Daux, G. (1977) “Aigei sites des wombes royales de la Macédine sigue.” Compues
Tend de Academe dernier 20-30
Wastingen 129-5
Wastingion 1127
(1981) “Once Agai the Royal Tomb at Vergna.” Archaiologita Analeka ex Atk mom Ls
‘te BBar Shar and EN Bors, Washington,
(Rian wth Eng ray) -


Page 317, Instance 0, Class: Text
ombe rat ck Vegi” Act ofthe XI! Inermaional Congres of Classical
‘Presta Galata, AM and Teo, (1980) “Le tome ep de Vegi gle
Rao S988) “Spa Salis nthe Athenian Agua” Hesperia SD SA.
“Tonds of Vegas Arrhiloie ponerse SS
YOUNG ALEXANDER.
Alvi, .W. (19823) “mance in Gesk ister.” The Journal of aschahistory 8
Anderson, AR (1950) “Baca is Legend” AP S:-21
(Go826) “Earyce™ Philip lender dhe Great and the Macedonian Heritage els
‘Wa. Adane and EN ees Watigton, 9-110
ower AB (197Ia) “Pip Hand Upper Macsdoia” CO 2193-105,
Seems, 18 (1989) “Grek erty ad Modem Homosxsaly” Fro Sap 1
(Covkwell GL (1978) Php of Macedon. Landon,
(OBSI) "Philp and. Aen” Php of Macedon eds MBMazopouoe and 1.


Page 318, Instance 0, Class: Text
(Coc P1955) Un fae empire Philip Io de Macon Sit Bae.

i, (1969) "Population pnts by Pip Hated 9-17.

(a9s16) “The Unieston of Macedon” Philip of Macedon, le MB.Altzopolos nt
Wasaga 69.75.

(986) Pht nd Macedonian Iperiaion Piceon,

Eningion, RM (1974) Maredonion Roya St’ an Merc Sica” JS

ater, 1-979) The Crop and Helene Kings.” AIP 100<97-518
“Macedonian Heritage eds W.L. Adams and EN Borza, Washington. 85-98,
‘Payette. ” The Jura of Pye 111-20


Page 319, Instance 0, Class: Text
(19886) “The Marrageability Age at the Argead Cour: 360-317 BC" CW 82: 93-7

‘Greybek, E(1986) “Zu Ppp und Alexander dem Grossen," AM 423-9

(ODSI) "The End of Pip” Philp of Macedon ede MLB Hatopoulos and L.

(198) “The King ood the Lan nh Macedonian Kingdom,” CQ 3832-91,

amp F193) Der Kg der Matedonen Lega

(982) “The leven Isenpion ad the Dates lips Reign” Philip 2, Aleander
Washington 21-2.

azole MLB, ed Lokopouoy LD. (1981) Philip of Macedon. London

LengqueP. (1981) “Philip's Peony” Philp of Macedon. WP elk

‘Mazur GH. (1027) “Queen Eurydce and We Evidence for Woman Power ie Ely

(19822) Hellemstc Queens. Balimore and London,

Male MM U974) "The Sete of Pipi 6" CQ24255.68


Page 320, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘peti Later io Phi 5968053

Moatnge des Detach Archsloiacen Iti. Athnce Aeng 8188
‘Monigmay, HL U98S} “The Ecoomis Revelation of Philip Myth o Rely?”
Mosca Canelnove (1986) “Eleno «a adsoe ia pi,” RFIC 161
Oswalt M. (1969) Nom athe Reins of the Aeon Democracy. Ovo
(0985) “Great plate ration whe Connon League of Pili f Macedon™
‘esas, P. (1988) “New Duscoverics at Pella, Binplace and Capital of Alexander”
Pomeroy, SB (1980) Women i Hellen Ep. From Aewander 0 leaps, New
‘Rubin, LG. (1989) “Lave and Poltisn Xenophoe's Capac Interpretation 16.391


Page 321, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Tatu, J. 1989) Xenaphon’s Imperial Fiction. Ow the Education of Cras Princeton

‘Toman, A (1060) "Satyr the Peptic an the Marages of Pip "JS 106116
‘Macedonia” Ves Drv ino 2139-53 Renan with Emp su]

Wirt 19850 Philp I Geschiche Makedomene 1 Saga.

ARISTOTLE

amen, Schotel, Mand Sra, Reds (1977 Arties riot London

Beer #0985) Plese Teagey ad Arslan Paya.” CO 38: 3001,

Hons, CM (1938) "Art's yma o Vie” CO 321829

oyun, (1937) Lec des Maser che ex pioophes rece: Pi

Gs, . 98) Art's Philo of Aton aes

(0973) Arte New Light on bs Lf and on Some of is Lan Works FM Note Dae

Dah N.0. 1984) Practical Reson Arse, and Weaker the Wil. Minsapls


Page 322, Instance 0, Class: Text
Gu, WAC. (1961) A History of Greek Philosophy VE. Aristo, A Encounter
atl $1957 The Poetr of Arist. Tamation and Comet: London
Sond. 1987) Wester Palorpy. From Antiguo the Mie Ages New Yok
Kets 1 (19578) “The Phlwopy of Aso sd he Hellenic Macedonian Poy.”
(G979) Artes Tory ofthe Will London
Mats. G. (1974) “Artal and Able le" Antihto 620-8
(Gechce nd Pooper Aerts art Amsterdam BU.
‘chur, ME (1990) “Aristotle andthe Classical Greek Concept of Desptism” History of
st, JM 1989) The Mind of Arise: A Stl in Philsopicl Groth, Tam,
omen, 1S. (1989) "Art's Hlepant sad the Mh of Aetnde’s Scemic
RELIGION


Page 323, Instance 0, Class: Text
Beye, CR. (1968) The Mid, the Odhsey and the Epic Tradition, London
Thnpeation of Greet Mtl Brae, Tto 278-83,

(Cay. 18.989) The Patio lope orm an Meaning the Major Homer Hos

(185) “The Calo the Hero Doo,” lle, American Soi Papoleges

‘Eastering, PE and Mui, .V. eds (1985) Greek Religion and Society. Cambeidge.

Eon CF (1971) “Macedonian Cals” Oxford Clase! Ditmar: Ono 634

Edwards, MIN. (1057) Homer Pot ofthe had Balmore a London

Ferg, 11989) Among he Gade Archaolgieal Eplration of Ancien! Greck

oncnon1 (1978 The Delphic ace: Responses and Operations Ree.

‘Git, A. (1951) Quando nacgue in Alessandro Magno ide dela filiacione divine. Bat.


Page 324, Instance 0, Class: Text
(CDs mer on Lf and Dest Oo

Sinn, A-U9RD-5) Alen tnd Amon An Sr: adpestness Rolando Eis

ery, C. (1959) Aatipioe Areal Image of the Phin’ xitence.

King. (1987 Aches Parag ofthe Wor Heo from Homer th Mie Ages:

Kopp, RC. (198) La ia Hencca ens ecient: mit, agoelogi, propaganda,

Knox, BMW. (1983) The Heroic Temper. Studies in Sophocican Tages: Berkeley.

oyeon, H (I9TD The asic of Zr: Hehe.

‘Nagy. 979) The Bet ofthe choca: Concepts ofthe Hers in Ach Grek Pact

‘Neck, AD. (1933) Cameron, The Old andthe New i Religion fom Alesander the
Great Augustine of Mpa, Oo

Paks HLW. 1967) The Oracle of Zeus. dona. Olympia. Ammon, Oslo

(G98Ss) Orvis of Apolo in At Minor Lane

Paar. (1955) Misa, Pltion and Prion i ary Grok Reign Onto

Par, Cand GC (1961 “Herel et Melgar” Hommage Baye eds M. Renard


Page 325, Instance 0, Class: Text
Rae 69360 “ye, Dees et Apion de Gla” REA 2113-20.

‘Shapiro, HLA, (1983) “Herds Theos: che Death ane Apotheasis of Merakles.” CW 77.7

Wes yan (1988) “King Combat: Bale and Heros i the Had” CO 381-24
MILITARY

Adcock Si FE 1957) The Greek and Macedonia of War Bele.

“Anderson 1 (190) Mitr Teor and Practice a he Ae of Xenophon Bete.

Boswowth, AB, (1975) “The Mission of Ampboterus and the Outbreak of Agi’ War”


Page 326, Instance 0, Class: Text
ele, B.(195) Alexanders Kamp gegen Por Stata. °

Bras PA 962) "eran Actoun of Altar x Canpins” CO 12: 181-58.

Davis EW. (1950) "The Pesan Ble Plan a the Grane” The James Span Studer

(987) “The Bate of Hydapes: A Tactical and Souce-Caitical Staly” AncW 163
‘Stage of Alena te Great" W 183-28

(49894) "The Macedonian Army at Gnugca I Seng andthe Length fs Bale

‘Dupuy, LN. (1969) The Miliary Life of Alesander the Grea of Macedonia. New York
Inde SephinTowns” Orcas Lover Prien 163-128

(4975) Alesander's Campa Sind aad alsa and he Seg of the Brin
Tow of Hara Leven

Engel DW. (097K) Aland the Gre andthe Logics ofthe Macedonian Arms

(€980)"Alotnde'seigence System” CQ 3027-40,

Enkin, (1989 “Th pecna of Pip Hand Alexandr” Minor 8385

sue P1982) Lae quote der arte Alene ai

Fel, A988) The Orga of War fom he Stone ge Alcan the Geet New

(19886) “Alexander in India. The Bate atthe Edge ofthe Eanth” Quarterly Journal of

Fisher T0800)" propio Cro Reo, 3, 25" Riad Flop xcone

lle, (1960) The Generali of Aeande the Great Raby.


Page 327, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘ti, 1.1935) The Mercenaries ofthe Hellenic World. Camb.
Sten Honor of Charles FE, ILE Del. Thess 161-7 "
‘Examples fora Grying Aman” Ie Gerontologist 28298 30,

Kespan J. (987 The Mas of Command Now Yok.

Kulak, M. (19882) “De Procio ab Alexandro Magno cum Poro Indorum Rese ad
Tigdagem Commit Meander £42291 Pol wh ain sun
{COCKY fact” Meer 4351-8 [Potnk with Latin summay)

(49779) "The Ogi fhe Arges" Muri 2637-8


Page 328, Instance 0, Class: Text
Maren, EW. (1961 The Campaign of Ganganel.Liverpoel

(1935) “Alexandre t Poms: Le passage de Wydase,” REA 37-39-57.

"Ratz, W. (968) "Zar rzalmgshuns des Q- Cis Rts: Die Beagerang vo Tyas
Geographic Journal 102193-277


Page 329, Instance 0, Class: Text
Welw KW. (1979) “Der Kamp om ds makednice Lager el Gaal” RAM
‘1980/1 “Zvet Lager het Gaugamela” QuaderaiCatanesi di Sal Classici e Medieval
POLITICAL

‘Badian, E (19608) “The Firat Fight of Harps,” Mistria 9245-6,

(S616) “Hp” SSIS

(1987s) “Alexander at Peels” CQ 37:117-28

ay, UC (195) The Unt of Mankind Grek hows Cambie

enpioon Hct a (989) The Ger an he Pertans from the Sih Yo he Fourth
Boswowth, AB. (1974) "The Governmeat of Syria under Alexander the Great," CQ 2:46


Page 330, Instance 0, Class: Text
oman, AK (1985) Ep afer the Phar: $52 BCAD 642 fom Alena the
(1985) “Persia and the Greeks." The Cambridge History of Iran H. ed. LGeesheviteh
{Geny, ED. (18a) "The Fas Fight of Hapa Apu” C2779-11

{Covkwll GL (1960) The Crowning of Demestnes” CQ 19163-60

Foher K (1057) “Zar Lage von Kanda a Landerindungen nchen an nt
rye N- (196 Te Heritage of Pera Lowden .

‘ek, W. (1977) "The lp of Haan od Tauro” CP 721535


Page 331, Instance 0, Class: Text


Page 332, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘ie Ateramawisanscha YOST 8, °

Setar, M0945) “The Religion of Achaemenan Ian” The Cambie Hitry of
‘hun cl Gere Cane 66497 "
‘CO 51-06-12

‘Vost, 1 (1971) “Kleomenes vo Nauhratis—Herr von Aypten” Chiron 1183-7,

Wale, (1946) De Vkerschten ef de Relivo Prep Bi

(1972) Berge su Achimenadengechcte, Wiesbae.


Page 333, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Wiontngton (984) “Toe Ft Fight of Hap Rested” GARI; 161-9
(G98) apts al the Macedonian Envoys” LCM 937-8
{G9sta) EGE 1651, 1632 apd Hapa Sipe” 2PE 6522-4

PhloaphiclSocey LOT 8- 68

‘THE METAMORPHOSIS

‘Austin. GA. 1985) Alcon Wester Society fram Aig 1800, Santa Baar
Ayman (199) "Sarquclgus yer Epi gu potent Alsons a ete
Madan E1958) “The Ean Bugs Slay st Method” CQ 144-57,
Hewt C1987) "La wade nu Fares ep srcd Alesnndr” Act 6
ator, E1986) “Wine and Cathar the mens in Pat's Lae.” C42
ema P. (198) "Le pilose Anaarge eri NioeEon de mi.” Jouma

Macedonian Subs Honor of Charles Fone HL Dal Teves 73


Page 334, Instance 0, Class: Text
Pe Sem on i Ca id Ne


Page 335, Instance 0, Class: Text
Peoples” QUAI
(0968) “Ancient Experience with noiaing Drinks: Now Ate rec State” QUS 10
(1950) “Bachan as Health Giver,” QUSA 1230-46,
{G9s1) “Ate Temperance” QUSA 1261-102,
{095))-New Ligh on te Questo of Homeric Temperase”QISA 1878-99.
‘Meyer. (186) "Der Berg Aor ls Alcan. Za de een Grape dr Vision
ter Step]. (107) “raking Unt Wine. Dea Unpublished Grek Epigre
ora Youth fm Epes Ac 229-30
‘Starship 131-46,
Paz F-(1990) “Oaines of Maple of Spot Emeriss” Symp
(C Matyi ed O Mur. Oxford. 177-8
Re 1LW (6S) Diem and Rongsernchat Naschs


Page 336, Instance 0, Class: Text
Tiukadlopiche antckening bj et maleme ensrock” Thich soor
(0989) Zam Problem der "Vabesiphrkei” Alexander des Gone.” Ane. Sa 2015.
‘Sugai, GS (1970 “Otservstons on the Hears of Alexander the Grea” AM 186

Guchice It ole W Schmtthener apd RZoepll.Hidesheim and New York.

INDIA
(Oho, PAC (1988) “The Ganga of the Class Wester” Quarterly Review of


Page 337, Instance 0, Class: Text
DEIFICATION
Dasealas A (M87) "La deco f Alene le Grind on Egypte ta ction
‘lower MA (O88) Agel of Spartan th Origins of he Re Ca" CQ 36125
aon 1 (1953) "Alexandr and hs Soalled’ Faber” CQ 3151-7


Page 338, Instance 0, Class: Text
Stutgart. “
ALEXANDER DEATH


Page 339, Instance 0, Class: Text
amp, F955) “Altair es Grose Mpommemate ao ete Pine.” Seder
Tanc Gta, F(I988) La more Alen eb Wain  Antpao™
‘Spek, Ri.van der (1985) “The Babylonian Temple during the Macedonian and Parthian
‘Wink, G 988) "Neach. Aleander und ie Diadochen Speulatonen ther in
(0989) "Alraner,Ketaner ul andere Zegenoen. wigangea zm Probe her
enisinn” Joes en OnerccchenArcholoiachen nits Wien
MISCELLANEOUS.
nea, (1977) Da Aleundermoa aus Pompe Reskinghnsen
atiger AR (1979) Exay a he Coinage of Alene th Great New Yok
‘sors fra cd Generic Cai. 610-38


Page 340, Instance 0, Class: Text
Hph, Dad Bowen, BC. (1983) "Emons, Hep td Alexandr,” HS

‘emer PM (1979-40) "The Som of Anon Kanda” Ahan Stas 29-21,
Sour of te Royal Nama Society 79-13.

‘Mammon, NLL 1986) "The King of Ass andthe Persian Thon." Aico 20

(99) “Toco concerning Pip snd Clindoes in he Reign of Alexander he
i the Macedonian Hertage eds Wi Adan and EN Bora, Watingtn. 15

‘ener, © U9R2 “Altre nln am Ges Scape ae Seen in» Poti in
har Shar and EN Boren Wahigton. 238-38,

‘ale, G. 1985) “Sopan Tan Ars,” Bulletin of he American Scie of

Janson, FLW. ed. (1965) The Art of Greece 1400-31 BC Sources and) Documents

Kaine WB. (1982) “Ein Meter der Gli a em Linki Aletandes des Gren”

(G9S4) "The Kania Dademtopboros" UA S46 5


Page 341, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘im Band chan (198) The Temple ofthe Oxo.” Sowa of he Mang
“ng Branch fof he} Roel Ate Society 2139-87

-Pédech, P-(1980)“L'expéiion df Alexandke eta scence grecque.” Megar Alexandros
Tice Propaganda" Namioi Chroite and Jour ofthe Rel Nama

Pott 11. (IS) The Art of Greer 1400-31 BC Searcer and Documents, Ealewoot

(0986 Arti the Helles Age Cambs

ce, MUL U9TH Cano te Maced. Landon.

Ramp A. (962) "Zam Altanier Mon” Motnger des Dewtchor

‘Roschenhusch, E1979) “Die sziae Herkuaft der Epbehen um 3307 ZPE 38: 173-6.

(0976) "The Prt of Aen” Alenandee fe Grand Image ali Eieions


Page 342, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Schnashi"Jouna of Sport sory 1670-8


Page 343, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The reader is also referred to “Frequent
“Achaemenian(s), Achaemenid 62.72


Page 343, Instance 1, Class: Text
Asamernon 6.2 56
‘gan 19

Aewes

‘Ales Ear) 223


Page 344, Instance 0, Class: Text
eyo 722,68

est 60-4, 71.74.81, 1,138,166
ites, foundation of 10, 23,83, 124,
1512. 173, 196 208,20
Sonsini 31.42, 66,71
26,2158 218-30,205.
Secs 10.17.55, 82,8413,
16158 145,175, 186-5, 195-4
Spmcy 25-8. 44, 50-4 61.68.67,
136-3 155-3. 171, 1896193, 1978
129,133, 137, 148, 170, 193-2. 197;


Page 344, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘corel knowdge 14,1
Istages, ue of BS, 11, 135,148, 170,


Page 345, Instance 0, Class: Text
Iasgesse7, 63,88, 93,99, 101, 105,
smegalomaniavi. 13, 183, 185.195
sacar i, 96-56, 183, 18,
pr 285,572


Page 345, Instance 1, Class: Text
Alesander Sarcophagus
Alesana Ey) 488,185,
Arptlchas 72

Arp, S208
Armpit 1

anphorte) 220-2

Anais Xeno’) 9,223.6


Page 346, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘apo 4177
‘argon Aries) 21,72.97, 100


Page 346, Instance 1, Class: Text


Page 347, Instance 0, Class: Text
Atos: 201


Page 347, Instance 1, Class: Text
122,128, 126,129,134, 138, 2, 146,

178,179, 181,190, 206-16, 214,218
‘Baposs (son of Pharnuches) 164, 202

50, 55,61, 67,70, 74, 90,97, 110, 116,

123,139, 150158158 168 19,192

69,65, 107 189

192, 201-11, 208-19, 214,216,


Page 348, Instance 0, Class: Text
cepa 14163

ocean 78.28 154

Capri, Cappadocia) 70,109
‘Carthage, Carthaginians) 207-18
‘Chacrone, hale of 623-6, 26,38, 4


Page 348, Instance 1, Class: Text
Choephort esc h) 25,
(Chopra aero Pip ta
hepa sas wile) 26-3942


Page 348, Instance 2, Class: Text
onic Choephort esc h) 25,
paces St 163 cc 6670, 71,78, 11,200,
pep 7-8, 21S ic ates 70
lio 8 (Chopra aero Pip ta

123, 131, 136-8, 198 - (Cleopatra (Philip Hs ast wife) 26-39, 4
Cappadocia, Cappadocian(} 70,100 Common Pe ge
Puthage, Carthaginians) 207-18 Conga line:


Page 349, Instance 0, Class: Text
{Ciopadia Xeno’) 49-2. 75,223-8
Dara:


Page 349, Instance 1, Class: Text
130,51, 54,59, 60, 61,67, 77,804, 93,
102. 1a 156,166 202, 305,208,214
15°15 18,22 26, 25,29, 38 46 7.52,
53,51 5760.61, 00-3.72, 78.81.84,
6,88 95.96, 973,09, 102 103.105,
109,125,126, 127, 128.132.9138
168,170, 174175178 80-9. 182,
15.185 186,190,198. 195,196 197,
198 201,20 206, 208.214.218.216
218,218.30, 220-2, 205

“Teme


Page 350, Instance 0, Class: Text
ype Epa) 58,7960, 81 8287
tec Epes’) 28

lens, 16,147, 188, 15061157
Ephemeries:


Page 350, Instance 1, Class: Text
pte Een) 62-7

Epp 185,215,216

pists Eirias 204

Fira, Epo 1, 12, 16,28, 29, 33.38,
20,208

ESagila93

pats, River 4, $1, 9,172, 188,20,
2213.27
138 a6 201 218 2228
135,39, 56,58, 89,63, 73,7687, 95,
Toi, 107,120 157,18 187,190,191,

Bryce other of Philip 1) 26,27

Ende

Fak. an


Page 351, Instance 0, Class: Text
ral Uri Teste 25.507
Hecatompy us (Darghan) 110
etnies) 25,

Propater 164


Page 351, Instance 1, Class: Text
reece Grek() Heli tee).
‘slopes 108 197


Page 352, Instance 0, Class: Text
ppc 100

Histor of Sey Paiists)25
age 25

ype River ta 8108, 15,
panes Riera) 148, 155, 16,


Page 352, Instance 1, Class: Text
pans: River Bean) 148,154, 155.156,
Tos Gam of Anite 201,214

To (Eps) 228

Fees 75


Page 352, Instance 3, Class: Text
eles eptte son of Aletnde te Hyp River (Bes) 148 15415, 156,
parc 140 139, 143-50, 149,150, 151-8, 154,
tory of Sicily (Phin) 25 16, 167-5, 169,170, 171,172,179,
rset vee Hap

ge 5 Ta, 187, 199, 10,207, 208, 2,210
68 Tos Gam of Anite 201,214
races km) 28

rote 1 ‘cee


Page 353, Instance 0, Class: Text
yi Lychan) 62,10, 145


Page 353, Instance 1, Class: Text
ews (Spartan ig) 1-17


Page 353, Instance 2, Class: Text
hela, River yi Lychan) 62,10, 145
vee Spat Seah Ae aig
Leon (Spr ig) 1-17 sa


Page 354, Instance 0, Class: Text
ard temple, 201
‘neti lamer, 12,8
Metapsce Aste


Page 354, Instance 1, Class: Text
Myre
Mytlne 6.97

1 pated psopens
Neoptlemis (ate) 3
Neopolrmus atherof Oly) 12
Neopiolmis n of Ailes) 12,39
Nyman Precio


Page 355, Instance 0, Class: Text
reese 153,170
Ppa 67
Paplagonis 70


Page 355, Instance 1, Class: Text
dip Rex Sopttes) 223

liga, oligarchy 62

‘Olympn gs, Oly mors,

On:

(On ite Death of lesan and
“epson Eppa)

rpc St

Opie


Page 356, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Agana 10
Se Aleta I prac Nectacho


Page 356, Instance 1, Class: Text
pale 220

Php (be Acaranian pyc) 7,81
Phloem 8

Dhlopores 6

Phocnissae (Euripes!) 23

Phrada (Farah, Propasa) 112,118, 120,


Page 357, Instance 0, Class: Text
Py 76

Pyhagers 210-1

yt 15.06

Pyten 7

Pyhonce 177

Reo repent 71

Roya Diaries (Ephemerides) 201-1,
Roya Sno cave 6072.12:


Page 357, Instance 1, Class: Text
“te also Alexander I, pothos
Prpibane
Peychopempes 186


Page 358, Instance 0, Class: Text
Someta

Spat Spr) Laceseonins) 17,
261,778.78, 95, 194 20

Sopa 18 137,195
Oo, 24, 135.176 17, 179.182. 188,
1994193 196.206

Spann Xeno!) 225,225

postu, spon) (ant
‘king pry. tev) 57. 1.25,
269,32 34, 6667.75.97, 98-4 10
Tank TA 136-3158, 160-7,
19,171, 182 188.8 194, 201-1, 213,
215-6218 21.25

Syn popes 10-7


Page 358, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘Sangala 155-3
Sarge 212 218,214
Senate meter of Dios) 15-14. 47,
Sind ind) 14, 146, 163
‘Shy oer of Daas 5.6
sphor26, 32,215,220,

14, 2,82, 145, 156-4, 163, 170-8, 174,
Saydet,3W. 171
Seater Defonte Xenophon’) 225
Sogdian, Spins) 123, 124,126,134


Page 359, Instance 0, Class: Text
“Pos 92 Vict
Temp :


Page 359, Instance 1, Class: Text
"I ‘et ef Fan 39, Ho
be Dio Xenophon 849, 0, $8, 70,74, 98.2228
tot 102,103,123;


Page 359, Instance 2, Class: Text
ileen U7, 5,196,198
eT 57,1 18.22.24 3240 467
53,51 69.71,89, 91,07 9899103,
12139, 136,158 171 180 182.18,
16 196,199,202 208 206.215, 218
216,217 218.219, 220,222 4.22
‘nto tof rape) 1, 15,180,

wine ou:

Xenophon 849, 0, $8, 70,74, 98.2228
To, 103, 12%


Page 359, Instance 4, Class: Text
‘hrsymachns 25
"rage pleasure” 25:


Page 360, Instance 0, Class: Text
{69, 76, 84,85, 86, B7, 88, 92,108, 122,
‘obra Landings) 59


