Page 1, Instance 0, Class: Text
Dr. Smith
5/8/2017

Alexander the Great in Sogdiana
Introduction:

‘Alexander the Great's military campaign in Sogdiana was one of the toughest campaigns
he ever conducted, He confronted an elusive and determined adversary in what from the Greek
point of view was the edge of the known World. Despite its challenges, this campaign would
have a lasting impact in Central Asia. Infact, it still resonates inthe historical memory of
Uzbekistan today. To fully appreciate the importance of these events, we must first place
‘Sogdiana geographically. The region of Sogdiana encompassed most of what today is known as
modem Uzbekistan and part of Tajikstan. In ancient times Sogdiana bordered the region known,
as Bactria tothe south, which included much of modern Afghanistan, and border areas of
Usbekistan and Tajikistan, Only an army exceptionally well-led and possessing a highly
developed logistical capability could have waged an effective campaign in such a remote and
forbidding location.

‘When we examine Alexander the Great’s campaign in Sogdiana in its historical context,
this is what is known, The reason for Alexander's military campaign in Sogdiana was that he
Wanted to cement his position asthe ruler of Asia. To do so he needed to defeat Darius, the
Persian king. Before he could complete this task, though, a Persian commander by the name of


Page 2, Instance 0, Class: Text
Bessus launched coup resulting in the killing of Darius.' Bessus then proclaimed himself the
rightful heir tothe Persian throne? Undetered by these events, Alexander pursued Bessus into
distant Bactria and then Sogdiana. There Alexander faced a resistance by the natives based on
‘guerilla warfare taties. With a show of ruthless force, Alexander defeated them and inthe
process conquered Sogdiana." Bessus would eventually be betrayed by his own men, led by
Spitamenes and Dataphernes, and given up asa prisoner to Alexander the Great for execution

Later, a major revolt against Alexander occurred in seven cities across the region, along,
With Marakanada (today known as Samarkand) the “royal” ety of Sogdiana, and two towns
‘guarded by rock fortresses.* Alexander would eventually crush the revolt and enforce his
authority. However, the effort was costly and is considered by many historians tobe the
toughest challenge Alexander ever faced. For example, Kristin Romey states, “Nowhere else
‘on Alexander the Great's 22,000 mile, thirteen year march from Greece to Punjab did he
encounter more difficulties than in what was known in ancient times as Sogdiana."6Or, as
Frank L. Holt says, “There began here two years of savage warfare waged all across Sogdiana
‘on a scale unequaled anywhere else in Alexander's anabasis."?

‘Therefore, the questions I will focus on are the following: Was Alexander the Great's
conquest successful, if so how and why? Lastly, what was the legacy of Alexander the Great after

TAwian. The Campaigns of Alexander. JR. Hamilton ed. Aubrey De Selincourt trans,
(New York) : Penguin Books, 1971), 184

Artin, The Campaigns of Alexander, 189.

» Antian, The Campaigns of Alevander, 188-195.

* Arran, The Campaigns of Alexander, 197

* Arvian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 201-237.

© Kristin M. Romey. "The Forgotten Realm.” Archaeology Magazine, Vol, 57, No. 6.


Page 2, Instance 2, Class: Text
TAwian. The Campaigns of Alexander. JR. Hamilton ed. Aubrey De Selincourt trans,
(New York) : Penguin Books, 1971), 184

Artin, The Campaigns of Alexander, 189.

» Antian, The Campaigns of Alevander, 188-195.

* Arran, The Campaigns of Alexander, 197

* Arvian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 201-237.

“Kristin M. Romey. “The Forgotten Realm,” Archaeology Magazine, Vol. $7, No. 6
(2004). httpVarchive archaeology. org/04 Vabstractvalexandes ht

7 Frank L. Holt, Alevander the Great and Bactria. (Leiden: EJ. Bill, 1993), 53


Page 3, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘the campaign from his death to the present? To provide an answer to all these questions in tun
requires careful sifting ofthe evidence offered in primary and secondary sources

When examining Alexander the Great's conquest of the egion of Sogdiana (encompassing
most of modern day Uzbekistan) its clear Alexander managed to successfully conquer and conteol
Sogdiana due to his extraordinary mix of atibutes and an intuitive sense of how and when to
‘employ them, The successes achieved during the campaign were due to Alexander's imaginative
policy towards the Sogdians, which could be at times brutal or accommodating, his sharp sense of
cultural and situational awareness, and his building campaign ia Sogdiana that would create a
makeover of that civilization. In turn, these Feats left a lasting influence from his death to the
present, Alexander's legacy is evidenced through coinage, the history ofthe colonies he planted
in the region, and the remembrance and cultural references within Uzbek society today

1. Secondary Literature

Based on the modern scholarship, it is obvious that relatively litle research has been
done on Alexander's Sogdian campaign. Most scholarship on Alexander the Great only briefly
mentions the Sogdian campaign and offers litle substantive detail. To the extent that historians
mention the campaign there, it is usually in conjunction with related events in Bact,
Discussion of events in Sogdiana tend to rly on broad generalizations and assumptions, while
the significance of Alexander's efforts and reasons forthe campaign ae ignored. In general,
Scholarly opinions are divided as tothe suecess ofthe campaign. Even today, comparatively
few foreign scholars travel to this region, while most native scholars in Uzbekistan have
focused on more recent events associated with the emergence of Uabek identity and culture
‘On top of that, we must remember we ate dealing with ancient history. Perhaps itis inevitable
thatthe stady of Alexander and his campaigns remains in itself a fascinating example ofthe


Page 4, Instance 0, Class: Text
challenges inherent in communicating the boundaries between fats, supposition, and mth
Now that being said, there has been some meaningful work Focused onthe subject, which has
‘articulated a fundamental question on which scholars remain divided: What was the impact of
‘Alexander the Great in Sogdiana

Scholars who have worked on Sogdiana specifically, the Foremost of whom is Edward
Rovelaze, focus mainly on constructing the course of Alexanders campaigns there, but donot
address the question of bis subsequent impact inthe region, This alo isd to the fact that great
eal about the man and his legacy is unknown, leaving scholars to attempt reconstruction oF his
‘orld base on highly fragmentary evidenee. Other, however have gone farther, tying to
aiculate the character ofthe accomplishment. For example, scholar rank L Hol takes erical
view of Alexander the Great, arguing that he was not a successful conqueror of Sogdiana and did
not havea legacy there. In contrast, other scholars like mulitary historian David J. Lonsdale,
praise the conqueror's suecess in Sogdiana

Edward Riveladze wrote by far the most detailed and comprehensive examination of
‘Alexander's campaigns in Central Asia in his work Alexander af Macedon in Bactria and
Sogdiana: Historical-Geographical Observations Riveladze spent several decades meticulously
‘wacing the routes of Alexander's movements across modern Uzbekistan and the northern fringe
‘of Afghanistan, His seven step methodology places emphasis on collating findings from seven
types of evidence: 1) review of all documents; 2) studying the conclusions of ast researchers 3)
reviewing the tavel notes of 19th-cenury waveles: 4) comparing old maps and placenames; 5)
geological and botanical analysis: 6) archaeological excavation; and 7) large-scale

Edward Riveladze, Alexander of Macedon in Bactria and Sogdiana: Historical
Geosraphical Observations. Translated trom Russian by R. Baumonne (Tashkent: Acadeany


Page 5, Instance 0, Class: Text
reconnaissance of the region and its archaeology. He offers the critical general conclusion that
“The archaeological research not only confems information from written sources about the futly
high development ofthis region during the Achaemenid period, but also adds many previously
unknown details" Riveladze does not attempt full-scale reinterpretation ofthe campaigns, but
rather considers the most likely routes taken by Alexander and the reason for their selection. He
spent years exploring the ground where Alexander and his armies tod, and made use of many
kinds of sources. For example, he consulted old maps conferred with local natives, checked the
‘geology and carefully scrutinized original soutces to pinpoint sites of erucil iver crossings of
the Amu and Sye Rivers. This was a matter of no small importance in shaping Alexander's
strategy. By raising many questions about the physical landscape at the time, the book also gives
some indication of all that we do not yet know about Alexander's exploits inthis relatively ich,
but litde-explored archaeological region. In contrast tothe works of Frank L. Holt, a leading
scholar on Alexander the Great in Sogdiana, this book doesnot say anything in regard tothe
legacy of Alexander the Great in Sogdiana

Frank L. Holt in turn, writes about both Batra and Sogdianain Lost World ofthe Golden
King: In Search of Ancient Afghanistan, which adopts abroad approach, focusing onthe history of
scholarship and archaeology of the region of Buca, His next work Into the Land of Bones addresses
the history of attempted conquests in Afghanistan from Alexander the Great to the U.S invasion af
Afghanistan in 2001, and then focuses specifically on Alexander the Great's conquest ofthe region
formerly known as Bactria Holt boldly asserts that all invasions of Afghanistan throughout history


Page 6, Instance 0, Class: Text
show deference to survivors.”!?

settlements he established.'*
© Frank L. Holt, Into the Land of Bones: Alexander the Great in Afghanistan. (Berkeley
™ Holt, Into the Land of Bones: Alexander the Great in Afghanistan, 19.


Page 7, Instance 0, Class: Text
CORRES UAE HE MEST ON MIE SEMEES FEVOUS. MRE SUCH CITCUMSances, i 1s Unlikely Mar
‘Alexander's artificial ‘march state’ survived on the Sogdian frontier.” If tue, this would put
into question whether Alexander's campaign was a success.

“The Failure of Alexander's Conquest and Administration of Bactia-Sogdiana” by
Michele Smith like Hol, heavily eriticizes Alexander's Sogdian campaign as a failure, Smith
believes based on ancient evidence that Alexander failed to successfully conquer, contol, and
manage Sogdiana,'® Smith also delves into the debate as to why Alexander interfered withthe
‘relations between the Seythians and Sogdians, describing how Alexander ereated unnecessary
tension asa result. Smith states that after Alexander the Great left for Inia, Sogdiana remained
unsulbdued and due to this Alexander left 13,500 troops inthe region.” Also, there was an
attempted coup by some of Alexander's soldiers to leave Sogdiana and return home."* More
evidence of Alexanders failure in Sogdiana, according to Smith, comes from what happened
after Alexander's death After his death, more rebellions by former soldiers of Alexander the
Great occurred." Consequently, Smith sees a campaign filled with mistakes that ultimately
resulted in failure

8 Holt, Alevander the Great and Bactri, 101

' Michele, Smith “The Failure of Alexander's Conquest and Administration of Bactria-
Sogdiana."Hirundo, the McGill Journal of Classical Studies 8. Montreal: MeGill University,
(2008): 64, hitps:/vww.megill cafclasiesfiles/lassis/2009-10-06 pa.

*© Smith, “The Failure of Alexander's Conquest and Administration of Bactria-
Sogdiana.” 6.

"7 Smith, “The Failure of Alexander's Conquest and Administration of Bactria-
Sopdiana.”. 69-70.


Page 7, Instance 1, Class: Text
8 Holt, Alevander the Great and Bactri, 101

' Michele, Smith “The Failure of Alexander's Conquest and Administration of Bactria-
Sogdiana."Hirundo, the McGill Journal of Classical Studies 8. Montreal: MeGill University,
(2008): 64, hitps:/vww.megill cafclasiesfiles/lassis/2009-10-06 pa.

*© Smith, “The Failure of Alexander's Conquest and Administration of Bactria-
Sogdiana.” 6.

"7 Smith, “The Failure of Alexander's Conquest and Administration of Bactria-
Sogdiana.”, 69-70,

' Smith, “The Failure of Alexander's Conquest and Administration of Bactria-
Sogdiana.”, 69-70,

Smith, “The Failure of Alexander's Conquest and Administration of Bactria-
Sogdiana.”, 69-70,


Page 8, Instance 0, Class: Text
Borja Antela-Bermancez, in “World ts not enough (Alexander the Gireat in Sogdiana: Av
study in historiography,” deseribes the history of how scholars interpret the Sogdian campaign
of Alexander the Great throughout history and how scholars often attempt to understand this
‘campaign by comparing it to more contemporary military campaigns.” Antela-Benandez
believes this practice tobe ineffective and fels that scholars trying to make these connections
‘between the Sogdian campaign and contemporary campaigns lke the U.S. invasion of
Afghanistan, are oversimplifying the Sogdian campaign." For example, Frank L. Holt attempts
to-make this exact connection between the Sogdian campaign and the U.S. invasion of|
Afghanistan.” Antela-Bernandez further explains “This is not, of course, a reprehensible practice
tall, but the historian must make himself conseious of what he is explaining and of the reasons
for doing so, in order to explain without mysteries his explicative intentions to the reader." This
source ereates an intriguing argument and exposes the flaws of many scholarly interpretations of
‘Alexanders Sogdian campaign. By superimposing the lens of contemporary events over the
limited record ofthe ancient past, a researcher might find crucial insight, but could also be
misled to discover false parallels. This isnot to say that uch an approach may not draw

® Borja, Antela-Bemnandez, “World is not enough (Alexander the Great in Sogdiana: A
study in historiography)” n Central Asian in Antiquity: Intedisciplinary Approaches, BAR
International Series 2665 edited by Borja Antela-Bernande7 and Jordi Vidal. Oxford:
Archaeopress, 2014): 77,
Intpsfivww.academia.edw/2437963/World_is_not_enough_Alexander_the_Greats_campaigns_a
‘gains the_guerillas_in_Sogdiana

2 Antela-Bernande2, “World is not enough (Alexander the Great in Sogdiana: A study in
historiography).”, 83.

*Antela-Bernandez, “World is not enough (Alexander the Great in Sogdiana: A study in
historiography).". 83.


Page 8, Instance 2, Class: Text
® Borja Antela-Bermande2, “World is not enough (Alexander the Great in Sogdiana: A
study in historiography.” In Central Asian in Antiquity: Interdiseiplinary Approaches, BAR
International Series 2665 edited by Borja Antela-Bernande2 and Jondi Vidal. Oxford
Agchaeopress, (2014): 77,

Inps:/www. academia edu2437963/World is_not enough, Alexander the Greats campaigns a
‘gainst_the guerillas in_Sogdiana

2" Antela-Besnande, “World is not enough (Alexander the Great in Sogdiana: A study in
historiography).", 83

antela-Bemandez, “World is not enough (Alexander the Great in Sogdiana: A study in
historiography).", 83

® Antela-Bemander, “World is ot enough (Alexander the Gratin Sogdiana: A study in
historiography).”, 83.


Page 9, Instance 0, Class: Text
interesting and helpful comparisons, but it often risks skewing the understanding of primary

sources ased on the presumption of patterns or analogies between past and present

Attempts to study ancient campaigns from a military perspective often make use of
contemporary analytical lens. Military historian David J. Lonsdale's book Alexander the Great
Lessons in strategy focuses on Alexander the Greats military career, but analyzes in depth the
‘campaign in Sogdiana, Lonsdale describes Alexander's campaign in Sogdiana as
counterinsurgency, aterm widely employed in modern military studies to describe efforts to
defeat guerilla resistance. Lonsdale asserts that Alexander had a clea politcal objective to
‘reat a stale and unified country. Therefore, his concept for governance dealt with social,
economic, security, and administrative problems, as well as a strategic phan to secure his base
areas. Lonsdale also spends much time analyzing Alexander's sueeess in Sogdiana, and takes
‘postion opposing the thesis of Holt and others who would diminish Alexanders significance.
Lonsdale contends, “Alexander had to complement his military conquests with astute pre-and
post-conflict policies to cement his rule. This isnot to detract from the significance of
‘Alexander's military achievements, upon which the conquests were based. Indeed, the non-
military elements of Alexander's grand strategy would have been extremely vulnerable without
te security and authority delivered by force." Lonsdale’s argument makes us wonder whether
Hot misunderstands the military strategy of Alexander the Great. Miltary strategy never
‘operates in vacuum, Why does the act of making concessions with the Sogdian, as Holt
claims, undermine the assertion that Alexander the Great conquered Sogdiana?


Page 10, Instance 0, Class: Text
As the works of Holt and Lonsdale demonstrate, a key point of debate remains the
ultimate success and impact of his efforts in Sogdiana, Its useful to examine more closely the
points of divergence between the ovo camps. Inthe first are those with the view that Alexander's
‘campaign was unnecessary and ineffective. Take Holt, for example, who argues that Alexander's
colonial successors were the ones who really changed Sogdiana.”* Holt also argues Alexander
never fully conquered Sogdiana, because revolts continued after he left” Smith takes a very
similar view as Holt. In the opposing eamp, the prevailing view is that Alexander was forthe
most part suecessful based on a flexible and imaginative approach. Moreover, as we have seen,
Antela-Bemnandez cautions against reading the present into the past. And then there is Lonsdale,
who brings @ unique military background to his analysis and takes a position in favor of
‘Alexander, supporting the idea ofa successful campaign, without addressing the question of
lasting impact.

In conclusion, itis evident that the competing models analyzing Alexander's Sogdian
‘campaign efleet the need for a reassessment of this campaign. To be persuasive this
reassessment must include a multidimensional analysis ofthe evidence based on all aspects of
the campaign

HL, Primary Sources

‘When we examine the very incomplete primary source evidence for Alexander the Great,
itis often tricky to decipher what explanation of events is most likely to be true. Because many
‘of the writings concerning Alexander the Great did not survive, modern authors have litle


Page 11, Instance 0, Class: Text
recourse but to provide hypothetical narratives that seem to fit available information, oF to fill n
important gaps with informed conjecture. Tha, combined with potential for bias on the pat of
‘the authors, increases the complexity. It is striking that historians have taken very different
positions; some have used distinctive perspectives or emphasized certain types of detail to shape
their accounts. Collectively, these accounts offer much to help construct the story of Alexander
the Great

‘This paper relies above all on the most trusted primary source The Campaigns of
Alexander by Artian. As historian A.B. Bosworth states, “His [Arrian’s] work isthe most
‘complete and the most sober aecount of Alexander's reign and atthe same time it provides
explicit information about the sources used." In addition, Thave referenced another highly
regarded work on Alexander called The Age of Alexander by Plutarch. Next, Lused the Complete
Works of Diodorus Siculus , which is well regarded and features primary source material on
‘Alexander. Lastly, used the slightly more controversial aecount by Quintus Curtius Rufus The
History of Alevander, which if read carefully can provide useful information regarding
‘Alexander's campaign in Sogdiana, Rufus may have taken some literary license, but generally
adhered to well-known facts ofthe campaigns. Bosworth details the dangers ofthis source inthe
following manner: “There is also the problem of embellishment and exaggeration inthe immediate
source. That isthe particular danger with Rufus whose work is deeply infused with shetorie.""” The
advantage ofthese sources i that they are using sources from many people who witnessed or lived
during or closer tothe times of Alexander. Therefore, they give us the best possible literary evidence
regarding Alexander.
Tan Worthington, ed., Alexander the Great: A Reader. (London and New York


Page 12, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Atrian was a Greek historian born in the 2" century A.D. in the Roman Empite."*
Arian wrote The Campaigns of Alexander, the only source known that g0es into
significant detail regarding Alexander's military actions from the beginning of his career to
the end, The sources on which Atrian relied to waite his book include the writings of
Ptolemy and Aristobulus.” Ptolemy was a general under Alexander the Great."*
Aristobulus aso served under with Alexander in an important capacity.”* Arian details
‘Alexander the Great's campaign in Sogdiana, providing @ nice summary ofall the events
from Alexander's struggles with rebellions, relating how Alexander conquered the region
and what he left behind. Therefore, this isthe foundational source all scholars employ
‘when studying Alexander the Great's eampaign in Sogdiana,

Plutarch was a Greek Philosopher born about 45 A.D." He wrote a biography of
‘Alexander the Great called The Age of Alexander. This source takes us from the beginning
of Alexander's reign as king atthe age of twenty to his death and its aftermath. Besides
being a biography of Alexander, Plutarch’s work has another goal: 1 reveal as much as
possible about Alexander's character and personality.®*


Page 12, Instance 1, Class: Text
© Worthington, Alexander the Great: A Reader. 18.

™ Simon Homblower and Antony Spaworth, eds. The Oxford Classical Dictionary (3 rev
ed.) Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2005
Inp:hwww.oxfordreference.com.czproxy:esbsju eduview/10.1093/aere9780198606413
(001.0001 /aeref-9780 1986064 13-e-279?rskey=EKTQEg&result=280,

= Worthington, Alexander the Great: A Reader, 1.

© A.B. Bosworth, Conquest and Empire: The Reign of Alexander the Great
(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1988), 297

“Plutarch, The Age of Alexander (London: Penguin Classics, 2012), 3.

Holt, Into the Land of Bones: Alexander the Great in Afghanistan, 167.


Page 13, Instance 0, Class: Text
Diodorus Siculus was a Greek historian born inthe I century B.C.% His work is
about the history ofthe world from the Trojan War to about 59 B.C." The goal of his book
was 10 convert stories of myth to factual histories.” In his book he has a section on
‘Alexander, which details his military campaigns until his death, Then it talks about the
successors of Alexander

Meanwhile, Quintus Curtus Rufus was a Roman born in the 1 eentury A.D. inthe
Roman Empire.” In his aecount, he used sources such as Cletarchus, to write The History of
Alexander, which focuses broadly on the reign of Alexander the Great. Cleitarchus is important
‘because he had access tothe first hand reports of Alexander: This work offers many
‘observations concerning the character and life of Alexander, rather than the specifies of his
military campaigns. Therefore, itis very engaging in terms of assessing the mind and ambitions
of Alexander.

As forthe other types of evidence used in this study, Ihave drawn from the field of
archaeology for information relating to Alexander the Great and his presence in the region of
Bactra and Sogdiana. Although excavations of this pat of the world have been fa less
extensive than in Lands t the west, notable findings have occurred that shed addtional ight on
the subject. Reports of excavations by archaeologists have done much to corroborate other kinds
of information. In addition, while in Uzbekistan, Ihave had the opportunity to visit some sites of
interest, as well as to examine archaeological evidence contained in museums throughout

* Diodorus Siculus, The Complete Works of Diodorus Siculus (Hastings: Delphi Classis,
2014),7.

» Siculus, The Complete Works of Diodorus Siculus, 7.

* Siculus, The Complete Works of Diodorus Siculus, 7

8 Worthington, Alexander the Great: A Reader, 2-18.


Page 14, Instance 0, Class: Text
Uzbekistan, Some of these featured artifacts from the region of Sogdiana. What is so useful
about this type of evidence is that it provides persuasive proof in regard to Alexander the
Great's occupation ofthe region and his legacy beyond. Lastly Ihave incorporated modem
evidence that reflects the current state of legacy of Alexander the Great as well. This evidence
lends supporto the contention thatthe memory Alexander the Great still to this very day
‘resonates with the people living in the region formerly known as Sogdiana. Moreover, many
inhabitants of Urbekistan connect Alexander the Great wit their own historical identity.

The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology, Language, and Identity in Greek Central Asia by
Rachel Mair focuses primarily on the archaeology of the ancient ste at Ai Khanoum, which was
founded by Alexander the Great. She uses this site to illustrate the legacy of Alexander the Great in
the region. She also describes briefly the campaign in Sogdiana and the resistance Alexander faced.
ln Mairs' other work, “The Founder's Shrine and the Foundation of Ai Khanoun,” she addresses the
‘origins of Ai Khanoum and the extreme difficulty of establishing evidence of “influence.” Mairs
states that despite the fact there is no literary evidence forthe existence of Ai Khanoum and its
foundation, and tha it lacks sue evidence of Greco-Macedonian influence, it might nonetheless
have been a settlement of Alexander the Great: Many setlements were thought to only be
‘temporary. Eventually, though, some ofthese sites would become cities. Therefore, we ean
suggest based on the post-Alexander archaeology that this site was in fat founded by Greco
Macedonians.

“4 Rachel Mairs, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology, Language, and Identity in


Page 15, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Scholar Leonid Sverchkov focuses specifically on the archaeology of the Kurganzol
Fortress. Tis is described in is work “The Kurganzol Fortress." Tis atile goes into detail
regarding the remnants ofthe Kurganzol Fortress and focuses on the history of the fortes from
its founding by Alexander the Great tits last occupation

Next, we have the Bacrian archaeology of the ste Kampyr-Tepe. The article by Kristin
M, Romey, “The Forgotten Realm of Alexander.” focuses on the Kampye-Tepe Citadel, as an
example of Alexander's legacy, and mentions that many archaeological sites connected to
‘Alexander the Great in Uzbekistan remain unexcavated, due to archaeologists" focus on other
regions. She also briefly summarizes his campaign in Sogdiana and stresses that Alexander built
more fortresses in Sogdiana than anywhere else he campaigned. This claim certainly figures ito
an analysis of Alexander's strategy in the region, With regard o fragmentary physical evidence,
“Tableware in the Hellenistic Tradition ftom the City of Kampye Tepe in Ancient Buctia
Uzbekistan)” by V. Martinez Ferrers, .M. GurtEsparraguera, 8, Pidaev, Edward Rwveladze,
and S. B. Bolelov pays attention primarily tothe various Hellenistic tableware found atthe site
18 mentioned in the ttle, However, the authors also devote effort to dacumenting the fortress"
location and apparent purpose. Kampyr-Tepe is alsodiscussed by Valeri P. Nikonorov"s in “A
Unique Comb from Kampyr-Tepe (Northem Batra,” which describes in specific detail the
\atious archaeological findings at Kampyr-Tepe, as well as offering a brief review of the history
‘of the site, Finally, Cohen’s book, The Hellenistic Settlements inthe East from Armenia and
Mesopotamia to Bactria and India, gives quick summaries concerning various settlements in the
Easter world. One of these summaties is specifically onthe ste of Kampys-Tepe, and reviews
the history of the site and the variety of artifacts found there.


Page 16, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘As for the archaeological evidence from Sogdiana. I did research on the coinage of
Greco-Bactrian kings, which included seven gold coins coming from the State Museum of
History of Uzbekistan in Tashkent and six silver coins from the Afrasiab Museum in Samarkand,
ln the State Museum of History of Uzbekistan in Tashkent I also saw Hellenistic Figurines.
“These artifacts were found in Samarkand at the former site of Marakanda, At the Afrasiah
Museu, besides the coins, I saw a Hellenistic flask, and a Hellenistic column base all found at
the ste of Marakanda, Lastly, also traveled to the small ity of Nurata and saw the Nur
Fortress, which is widely claimed by loca inhabitants to have been founded (or substantially
improved) by Alexander the Great. The geographical location and topography of Nurata
certainly would have made ita suitable place to establish a fortress; however, archaeologists
‘have not reported on excavations fom this site and no specifi reference to the place can be
found in the ancient sources. Of course, the fotiied locations established by Alexander were
probably so numerous as fo make mention of every lst one in the sources improbable

Finally, the modern evidence Ihave collected to support the legacy and influence of
‘Alexander the Great includes the layout of museums and the exits regarding Alexander the
Great. In addition, I paid elose attention to what loal Uabeks sad about Alexander the Great
‘and how he is remembered in Uabekistan. Whether tour guides from museums and cities, of just
‘ordinary residents, almost everyone had opinions about Alexander the Great. These opinions
were unsolicited by me. I would not mention to people, unless asked that was in Uzbekistan
for my research on Alexander the Great, because I wanted to know people's genuine thoughts on
the matter. I believe this allowed me to learn about the popular remembrance of Alexander the
Great in the county. Its also important to note that this isnot a country witha vas tourist
industry; therefore, there is litle probability that fabricated stories of Alexander the Great are


Page 17, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘being used to appeal to tourists. Tourism in general highlights the ancient Silk Road and
civilization centered at Samarkand long after Alexander passed through. Other evidence I
{gathered comes from things or places named after Alexander the Great, o at least named alter
something connected to Alexander. Alo, there are modern memorials and novels connected to
‘Alexander. All this information was gathered by traveling throughout the county and visiting
sites connected to Alexander. In turn, it became clear to me Alexander had significant influence
in this region of the world, He is a person Uzbeks actively remember, not just someone you only
hea about in museums.

(Overall, addressed my research from as many different angles as possible in
consideration of the highly fragmentary nature ofthe evidence unearthed to date on this
ancient period. No single category of evidence is sufficient to provide a detailed picture of
‘Alexander's activities and influence. Even though literary information is very important, itis
sill prone tobias and unnecessary conjecture. Physical evidence requires context, but offers
vital confirmation of accounts in primary sources. The point of history is to identify what is
most likely to be true; that means you use all evidence at your disposal

TIL ‘The Success of Alexander the Great

One ofthe Fundamental questions addressed in this thesis is whether or not Alexander's
‘campaign in Sogdiana can be considered a success. The answer depends in large parton what
‘Alexander himself wanted to achieve. Analysis ofthis question inevitably leads to consideration
‘of a second question: the atibutes and means that enabled Alexander to pursue this purpose

Available commentary from ancient writers indicates that Alexander was incredibly
driven to achieve great deeds, Plutarch describes the mentality of Alexander the Great in the


Page 18, Instance 0, Class: Text
following “He cared nothing for pleasure or wealth but only for deeds of valour and glory, and
this was why he believed thatthe more he recived from his father, the less would left for im to
cconquer...his choice was a life of struggle, of wars, and of unrelenting ambition.”

When Alexander the Great left Sogdiana after conquering the region, he was quickly
surprised that a rebellion started immediately after he left. What Alexander did not realize was
‘how complex the situation in Sogdiana was. Certainly, the conquest of Sogdiana had not
‘originally been a high priority. The Sogdians asa people were broken up into tribes governed by
warlords: This tibal framework did not dissolve afte his inital conquest, and when he left,
seven towns rebelled, as well as the royal city of Sogdiana called Marakanda (today known as
Samarkand) and two towns protected by rock forttesses.® The specific reasons for this rebellion
‘are hard to identify. Arran mentions that fear may have been a driving force.*

Frank L, Holt, on the other hand, believes it was due to the planned establishment of
‘Alexandria-Eschate on the Sogdian-Seythian border. Since the Sogdians on the border had good
‘relations with the Seythians, Alexander the Great sought to eliminate the prospect of outside
interference by the latter” Holt blames Alexander, implying Alexander the Great's effort was
‘ot worth the ttouble and had he not medded in the internal affairs of the natives, he could have
avoided the rebellion altogether and not needed to conquer Sogdiana.* The scholar Michele
‘Smith agrees with Holt and eritcizes Alexander in regard to Alexandria-Eschate stating “This
\as a strong imposition on local institutions and necessitated the annexation of land from locals,

© Plutarch, The Age of Alevander, 257

* FHolt, tothe Land of Bones: Alexander the Great in Afghanistan, $1
“© nian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 201-237,

46 Arrian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 201


Page 19, Instance 0, Class: Text
Which was sure to ignite opposition.... Thus, the management of this satrapy reflected.
‘Alexander's lack of understanding of the importance of maintaining previous Persian
‘administration methods."

‘The problem with these interpretations, though, is that they do not do justice 10
‘Alexander's purpose and they make assumptions. Alexander the Great was not trying to make
peace or avoid trouble, nor maintain the same agenda as the Persians. Had this been his modus
‘operandi, he probably would never have come to Sogdiana inthe frst place. Holt and Smith are
‘not thinking ike a commander, or better yet a conqueror. More probably, they are thinking like a
diplomat. Its also important to point out that Holt's analysis of Alexander's failures largely
Views them through a twentieth-century lens. In Into the Land of Bones, one of Holt’s points isto
‘compare Alexander's conquest of Sogdiana and Bactria to the modern invasions of Afghanistan,
Ofcourse, nineteenth- and twentieth-century campaigns in Afghanistan generally did not umm
‘out well for the invading power. According to Holt, this helps us understand the Sogdian,
‘campaign. Outsiders, inthis view, cannot fathom the complex internal polities of Afghanistan or
effectively defeat the Afghan tribes in the incredibly difficult terain that characterizes the
‘country. This gives us useful insight into the potential flaws of Holt’s argument

‘The problem withthe argument is that Alexander created settlements in Sogdian
as well as the blueprint for their governance. As a result, without Alexander the Great, the
settlements would never have existed and the Sogdians’ way of life would not have changed,
‘Therefore, arguments like Holts are largely self-refuting. This argument turns on definitions of
success. Continued resistance did not necessarily mean that Alexander the Great did not control

© Smith, “The Failure of Alexander's Conquest and Administration of Bactria-
Sogdiana.”, 66.


Page 20, Instance 0, Class: Text
Sogdiana, His network of fortresses and garrisons left him in a strong position, asthe extension
‘of Greek control after his death would affim. Moreover, iis important to remember that warfare
was commonplace in ancient times in this region. As Antela-Bernande2, describes, when i
comes to understanding the Sogdian campaign many scholars attempt to explain the decisions of
‘Alexander's quest on the basis of suspect analogy. These conclusions by scholars ae not
‘connected to primary sources, however, but rather historiographical themes." For centuries
scholars of Alexander the Great have been comparing his campaign to other campaigns around
the world from mote recent eras. These wars may well have common elements, but they are
hardly identical. Though some similarities can be drawn in terms of situations or tates, there
‘te stil numerous differences in the historical context ofthe events, which then hinder the
applicability of this type of analysis.

Alexander's purpose was conquest, and his instrument was his army. War was his area of
expertise. He knew that a conqueror must establish fim, defensible boundaries at each stage of
‘building his empire. Therefore, displacing locas or disrupting traditional living patterns is a
given. Once enforced, boundaries provided the point of departure for possible further expansion.
“This is why he created Alexandria-Eschate, because he was laiming his tut and wanted a
defensible frontier. Its hard to conteol a region ifthe locals under your authority are constantly
mixing witha potential enemy, such asthe Seythians. Also to insist peace would have come
about without the establishment of Alexandeia-Eschate isa subjective conclusion. In this pat of
the world, any display of weakness was an invitation to rebellion, Who would have been thereto

 Antela-Bernandez, “World is not enough (Alexander the Great in Sogdiana: A study in


Page 21, Instance 0, Class: Text
prevent a Seythian invasion of Alexander's new territory? Certainly not the Sogdians who
already had good relations wit them as Holt described. As Arran stated regarding Alexandria-
Eschate, “The site would serve both a a base for a possible future invasion of Seythia and as a
defensive position against raiding tibes from across the river"!

Leaving aside the causes of the rebellion, how did Alexander deal with it? In the 18
‘months that it took Alexander to defeat the Sogdian rebellion®, he experienced a great deal of
success through the use ofa highly effective pattern of military tactics and strategy mingled
With diplomacy. Fest, Alexander habitually showed the rebels a mixture of brutality and
accommodation, the proverbial “carrot and stick” approach, For instance, when the rebellion
started in the first five towns Alexander the Great's army reconquered, the army slaughtered the
men, and Alexander had the women and children sold into slavery. The reason behind such
‘brutality, not at all unusual in that era, was that Alexander the Great wanted to send a message
to prevent future rebellions. In fat this was not the first time Alexander had relied on this
practice. When Alexander the Great’s army conquered the Greek city of Thebes, he slaughtered
the army of Thebes and sold remaining people into slavery.** Plutarch describes the intent of
{his incident in the following quote: “Alexanders principal objet in permitting the sack of
“Thebes was to frighten the rest of the Greeks into submission by this terrible example."

‘Though severe, Alexander's method in Sogdiana aligned withthe needs of the
‘campaign. Now the Sogdian rebellion was not a small one. It stretched all across the region and

Arian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 201

© Lonsdale, Alevander the Great: Lessons in Strategy, 46,

© Atvian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 28.

‘Mt Avrian. The Campaivns of Alexander. 61


Page 22, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Alexander the Great needed tobe quick and decisive about how he dealt with it. David J.
Lonsdale reiterates this stating, “Faced with an array of enemies across a wide area of
‘operations, Alexander had to move quickly to prevent his forces being overwhelmed inthe face
‘of eoordinated action by his foes." Lonsdale also rightfully points out that Killing off the men
imminished the manpower for future uprisings.” As Alexander came tothe sixth town at
‘Cyropolis,it was defeated and the inhabitants surrendered, and no source mentions the same
brutality carried out there as occurred in the frst five towns that he had retaken, As for the
seventh fown, it was taken back by Alexander the Great's army, but itis unclear what happened
aflerwards.* Next, Marakanda was under siege by rebels and the force Alexander sent to relive the
city was repelled. Rising to this dangerous challenge to his authority, Alexander marched back
across Sogdiana with his army and shattered the besieging forces. The leader ofthe rebellion at
Marakanda, Spitamenes, was chased into the desert by Alexander and his army.” He would
eventually be tacked down and betrayed by his men, who sent his head to Alexander the Great as a
peace offering.

Here we can se the effectiveness of Alexander's methods at work. This ation as well
suggests that many Sogdians believed they could not defeat Alexander and sought the best deal they
could get in defeat. Alexander's reputation asa formidable commander led many to seek terms of
surrender rather than igh

Alexander then marched from Marakanda to Southern Sogdiana to defeat the rebel towns
‘guarded by rock fortesses. The first one was at Sogdian Rock lead by Oxyastes, who was 0

“Lonsdale, Alexander the Great: Lessons in Strategy, 91

© Lonsdale, Alexander the Great: Lessons in Strategy. 9


Page 23, Instance 0, Class: Text
surprised that Alexander's army breached his fortress, which lay upon a steep rock formation that
he surrendered" The last remaining town in rebelion, led by a man named Chorienes, would also
surrender:® Chorienes asked Alexander the Great via messenger i he could speak with Oxyartes for
‘Alexander the Great was very gracious towards Chorienes in return for his surender. As Arvian
describes Alexander's generosity, “Chorienes he treated with the utmost consideration, actually
putting the control of the rock into his hands and letting him continue to administer the same
tersitory as before.™*

In review, when the Sogdians rebelled against Alexander the Great's occupation ofthe
region, he had to find a solution to effectively destroy all resistance, while atthe same time
preserving a path to become the legitimate and unquestioned ruler. Alexander was successful at
this by slaughtering those who rebelled and rewarding those who honorably surrendered. Those
Who served him faithfully could rely on his support

‘Alexander the Great also mastered the art of maintaining situational and cultural
awareness during his campaign in Sogdiana. After Alexander quelled the Sogdian uprising, he
could have started a brutal reign of terror, but he didn't Instead, he took steps towards winning
‘over the people of Sogdiana and further establishing himself as the legitimate ruler of Asia. The
first major step towards this pursuit was actually during the rebellion in Sogdiana after
‘Alexander had chased Spitamenes into the desert from Marakanda. Alexander would later use
Marakanda as rallying point for is army, which had been spread all over Sogdiana to fight


Page 24, Instance 0, Class: Text
the rebellion. What is important to note about this is that Marakanda was the royal city of
Sogdiana. For Alexander the Great to use this “royal” city as a rallying point appears to signify
his authority in Sogdiana, as well as to affirm his strategic dominance

‘There is evidence to suppor this argument based on how much Alexander the Great
cared about Marakanda, When Spitamenes laid siege to Marakanda and defeated the fest
Macedonian attempt to relieve the siege, Alexander took matters into his own hands. This is
hhow Arian describes Alexander's reaction: “News ofthe debacle caused Alexander great
distress, and he determined to march with all speed against Spitamenes and the tribesmen with
hhim....In three days he covered about 185 mils, and at dawn on the fourth was close to the
town" Therefore, i is evident that Marakanda was very important to Alexander the Great and
crucial this authority inthe region. This case illustrates Alexander's keen sense of polities and
‘the symbolism of imperial authority.

‘After the rebellion, Alexander the Great made a shrewd political move by marrying the
daughter of “Oxyartes, who was a Sogdian rebel leader. The daughter was named “Rexane."*
‘This marriage toa high status woman helped solidify Alexander's claim as ruler ofthe region,
‘because now he was officially connected to the local people. The potential foundation of a
‘new dynasty could base its claim to legitimacy on the basis of native as well as Greek
heritage. Marriage alliances were not uncommon to Alexander; earlier on his campaigns in the
Persian Empire he had Macedonian soldiers mary Persian women.®”


Page 24, Instance 1, Class: Text
© Anian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 29,

 Amian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 210-211
 Atrin, The Campaigns of Alexander, 236,

© Quintus Curtus Rufus, The History of Alexander, 186,


Page 25, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Alexander the Great would invest even more effort by eventually adding Sogdians into
his military ranks, including three sons of Oxyastes "Infact two of these sons would
personally join Alexander on campaign. This in theory would make it so Sogdians were
invested in Alexander's reign and his future conguests, from which they stood to benefit. In
tur, if Alexander the Great's army failed, Sogdian blood would be shed as well. Ths type of
cultural mixing ean be seen in other places too, as @ part of Alexander's foreign policy
According o Anatoli Sagdullaev, “Many of the Greeks with Alexander studied the Persian
language... Alexander used Persians for administration and the government language was
Aramaic... his army was multiethnic... some areas actually did achieve a synthesis of
different cultres....but everything depended on Alexander's absolute system of military-
administrative rule" However, Sadullaev stops short of deeming this practice of mixing
peoples as part ofa plan to create a worldwide kingdom by calling ita mirage.” This is not
‘the point, because in Sogdiana this practice was used and brought success to Alexander's
campaign.

Lastly, let's not forget that those who did not interfere with Alexander the Great were
rewarded, such as Chorienes who was allowed to maintain his administrative position.”=
‘Alexander the Great welcomed local administrators into his governance model, as long as
they were submissive to his authority. David J. Lonsdale reaffirms this ideology stating
“Overall, Alexander's approach to the political administration ofthe empire was motivated by

© Anian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 356.

© Quintus Curtus Rufus, The History of Alexander, 186,

® Sagdullaev, The Campaign of Alexander the Great in Sogdiana, 181

» Sagdullaev, The Campaign of Alexander the Great in Sogdiana, 181.


Page 25, Instance 2, Class: Text
© asrian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 356.

© Quintus Custius Rufus, The History of Alexander, 186

™ Sagdullav, The Campaign of Aleender the Great in Sogdiana, 18
 Sagdullav, The Campaign of Alexander the Great in Sogdiana, 181
% Atvian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 237.


Page 26, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘need for stability, which manifested itself in a pragmatic approach, For the most part, this,
meant retaining existing structures where possible."

‘The final method Alexander the Great used to ensure suecess in Sogdiana was his building
‘campaign. When Alexander rallied his troops at Marakanda, he sent one of his commanders,
Hephueston, to begin the colonization of Sogdiana, As Arran states, “Alexander sent Hephacstion to
plant settlements in various towns.”"* This building campaign would allow Alexander the Great to
‘maintain control of Sogdiana and resulted in the produetion of many forts all over the region.
Archacologis Kristin M. Romey reinforces this perspective inthe following quote: “Romey details
how difficult the Sogdiana campaign was and that in Bactria and Sogdiana combined Alexander
established more fortresses than anywhere else he campaigned.” Although specifies relating to
Where and what was built are not addressed by Atran in the literary record, we know from
archaeological evidence near or inthe region that many forts were established across widely
distributed strategic junctions throughout the region. This included various fortified or fortifiable
structures, as well as new towns. For example, as Ihave mentioned before, Marakanda
(Samarkand) had a military garrison and served asa rallying point for Alexander the Great's
army, meaning it was one of his main bases in Sogdiana. Also, the primary source by Quintus
‘Curtius Rufus describes how Alexander maintained his winter quarters there and apparently held
4 famous banquet." This would only reinforce the importance of Marakanda as an important site
for Alexander the Great. Now one could sill speculate about whether this isa reliable citation,

Lonsdale, Alexander the Great: Lessons in Strategy, $1

 Asvian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 29,

° Romey, “The Forgotten Realm,” 1.

‘hitp://archive archaeology.org/041 Vabstracts/alexander: html.


Page 27, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘but from what I have seen historians tend to agree with this claim, Rufus as source tends to
exaggerate, but we should also recognize this isa rather bland detail and there would be no
‘reason to invent this piece of information. This is confirmed by my email correspondence with
Holt, who considers ita reliable citation.

‘We also know from archaeological evidence that Alexander the Great founded the
following fortresses and cities in Bactra on the border with Sogdiana. In Bactia he founded
the Kurganzol Fortress, the city of Ai Khanoum, and Kampyr-Tepe citadel. When it comes
to the Bactian sites we need to remember thatthe reason why these archaeological sites are
‘relevant, is because of their close proximity with Sogdiana, Therefore, they would very
likely resemble Sogdian constructions. As Mars states, “Although some ancient and modern
historians teat the river Oxus (modern Amu-darya) as the boundary between Bacteia and
Sogdiana, Bactra is bound together by the Oxus, not divided by it. This ean be seen most
leary in terms of material culture.” Next, should mention that all ofthese archaeological
sites are located in Uzbekistan, except Ai Khanoum, which isin Afghanistan

Now examination ofthe military fortifications ofthese sites offers indication ofthe goals,
of Alexander the Great's building campaign. First, consider the Bactrian fortifications. Ai
Khanoum was founded by Alexander and his army during the invasion of Bactra, which is
indicated by the Greek architectural style ofthe site. The location of the site was strategie.
According to Mairs, “Ai Khanoum was perfectly and deliberately placed to manage the resources
‘of the surrounding plain and the mountains tothe south..The ety of Ai Khanoum was also

Rachel Mairs, “The Founder Shrine and the ‘Foundation’ of Ai Khanoum,”


Page 28, Instance 0, Class: Text
designed to exploit the strategie potential ofits site, at the confluence of the Kokcha and the
‘Oxus (Amu-darya)."" Military scholar David I. Lonsdale deseribes the military strategy behind
controlling resources inthis particular quote: “In this respect, military force ean perform many
functions. For example, it can be used to seize resources, force political change, or eradicate or
ethnically cleanse an enemy population. In this respect, the military ean be used to take “control”
‘of a situation ™ Here indeed we see Alexander using his military to take control of resources in
‘order to militarily dominate the region. As one can understand, strategy was paramount in the
foundation ofthese settlements. Maits also goes on to state that the site also had a large
acropolis, with a high citadel."

‘The Kurganzol Fortress was another example of Alexander's attempt to make
foundations to militarily control the territory. The ida that it was originally a foundation of
‘Alexander is likely, because its period of occupation was during Alexander's campaign in the
region." Also, excavations atthe site examining the foundation layer ofthe Kurganzol Fortress,
revealed extensive signs of Hellenistic influence. For example, excavations discovered
Hellenistic architecture including columns atthe entrance and lots of Hellenistic pottery as
well” As forthe strategic location ofthe ste, the Kurganzol Fortress was uilt among other
fortresses inthe Surkhan-darya Valley to defend the northern routes connecting the city Bactra

» Maits, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology, Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, 37-9.

© Lonsdale, Alexander the Great: Lessons in Strategy. 18

™ Mairs, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology; Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia 3.

 Mairs, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology, Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, 163,

Leonid Sverchkov, “The Kurganzol Forttess: (on the History of Central Asia in the


Page 29, Instance 0, Class: Text
to Marakanda and the rest of Sogdiana.* The fortifications ofthe Kurganzol Fortress represent
‘trend of fortresses north of the Oxus, which were bult with hollow walls with internal
chambers and loopholes, i order to defend against ight cavalry or infantry attacks" The wide
walls and strategie positioning seem congruent with the other Alexander-foundations that we
‘know of in the egion, adding more evidence of te site's connection with Alexander. Overall,
‘the positioning of the for in its specific topographie context and the carefully and robustly built
‘walls all suggest that military defense was Alexander’ priority in this foundation,

Lastly, from Bactia we have the Kampyr-Tepe settlement. This settlement was
another one of the fortesses that archaeologists believe was founded by Alexander the
Great It was situated on the sight bank of the Amu Darya (the ancient Oxus River). As well
shaving military functions, it was a trading poston the route connecting Bactria and its
capital Bactra (Balkh, northern Afghanistan) with Marakanda (Samarkand) in Sogdiana, a
‘one that stretched from India tothe Caspian Sea"? Ths fortress also ad a citadel in the
Hellenistie period

* Mairs, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology, Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, 163.

8 Mairs, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology; Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, 163-164.

“©, Martinez Fereras, IM. Gurt Exparraguera, S. Pidaev, Edward Riveladze, and S. B
Bolelov.Tableware inthe Hellenistic Tradition from the City of Kampye Tepe in Ancient
Bactria (Uabekistan)” Archaeomerty, Vol. 58, 5. 2016), 763,

‘tp /fonlinelibrary.wiley.com/woll/doi/10.1111/arem.12199/abstract.

© Ferreras, JM. Gurt Esparraguera, Pidaev, Edward Rtveladze, and S. B.
Bolelov.“Tableware in the Hellenistic Tradition from the City of Kampye Tepe in Ancient
Bactria (Uzbekistan),” 736.

® Getzel M. Cohen. The Hellenistic Settlements in the East from Armenia and
“Mesopotamia to Bactria and India, (Betkeley: University of California Press, 2013), 277-


Page 29, Instance 1, Class: Text
® Mais, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology, Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, 183,

% Mais, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology; Language, and Mentty in Greek
Central Asia, 163-168.

%V, Martinez Ferreras, IM. Gust Esparraguera,S, Pidaev, Edward Riveladze and 8. B.
Bolelov.Tableware inthe Hellenistic Tradition from the City of Kampye Tepe in Ancient
Bactia (Uabekistan),” Archacomerty, Vo. 58, 5. (2016), 763,

Inpi/onlinelibrary. wiley com/wol/di/10.111 Iarem.12198/abstract.

© Ferreras, JM. Gut Esparraguera,S.Pidaev, Edward Riveladze ad S. B.
Bolelov."Tableware inthe Hellenistic Tradition from the City of Kampys Tepe in Ancient
Bactia (Uabekistan),” 736.

® Geizel M. Cohen. The Hellenistic Setslements in the East from Armenia and
Mesopotamia to Bactra and india, (Berkeley: University of California Press, 2013), 277-


Page 30, Instance 0, Class: Text
As forthe fortesses in the region formerly known as Sogdiana, we have evidence that
fortresses do exis, For example, Alexandria Eschate located in Tajikistan is even referenced in the
‘primary sources about Alexander the Great” There has been no archaeology going on there,
however. Next, we have the mysterious Nur Fortress located in the city of Nurata, which acording
to numerous non-scholarly claims was founded by (or improved by) Alexander the Great. It is also
said thatthe city Nurata used to be called “Nur.” Unfortunately, there is as of yet no confirmed
archaeological or primary source evidence to support these claims, given the fact there has been
‘no excavation reported at this site. Ifyou were to google “Nur Fortress” every tourist site talks
about it but there is not one scholarly source I could locate about the fortress. was able to visit.
the Nur Fortress and the locals told me all about how Alexander the Great was there, Accounts
linked Alexander closely to some of the most notable features ofthe city, such asa famous
spring. What I saw atthe site were massive walls encompassing a large swath of land, located
ata strategic point atop ofa large hill, overlooking the modern day city of Nurata. Further,
‘Nurata was positioned so as to be the foremost defensive point of Sogdiana looking to the
‘northwest. Nurata was the last outpost before reaching the desert and was in a exitcal position,
‘because this site is north of and between Bukhara and Marakanda two very important etis in
Sogdiana. Therefore, if Nurata fll it would leave both these valuable cities exposed. As a
‘result, it makes great strategic sense for tis to be a location Alexander would have used, i not


Page 31, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Shown below tn Hguse | is a map I Rave added on to showing the importamt sites
‘Alexander had conquered and founded, as well as possible site of Alexander's control the Nur
Fortress at Nurata

Figure 1. Map of Ancient Bactria and Sogdiana..”


Page 31, Instance 1, Class: Text
In conclusion of this section, along with Alexander's military strategy of destroying or
forcing the submission of his enemies and his cultural and situational cognizance. These
fortifications can be seen as part of Alexander's military strategy to command and conquer the
region. The contol over resources and strategic locations in general is necessary for any
conqueror and this building campaign nicely articulates this stategy


Page 31, Instance 4, Class: Text
t aN A
& Potone eetoy ae pee
ur ae HES:
Say : noe pl
RES coisNa cient Cami oo |
ANA Sab Began a
xenps Niwa 8g t
rortedten WK) Cubes ‘hens ees
a cour sen — hago BP eines es
° al fe ee
> SPSS Rhee |
ont, Teme Fo eaten | Roksan
“ Pe ars OGD sn *Red undertines
ee Men) Pama Ones are adaicns!
( ay ditions |
Paw 4 "Sop madeo


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Figure\page_31instance6.jpg]

Page 32, Instance 0, Class: Text
IV. Alexander the Great’s Numismatic Legacy

Earlier, we saw how Alexander the Great suecessfully conquered Sogdiana, but what
influence did he bring tothe region and what was his legacy? To have legacy and influence
means fo not only be remembered and commemorated for what you did, but also to have a
substantial impact on the future. This is exactly what Alexander the Great did. The first proof of
‘Alexander's legacy and influence comes from coinage found in Uzbekistan, This coinage came
from the Greco-Bactian Kingdom, of which the teritory of Sogdiana and Bactria would have
‘been pat. Alexander the Great died on June 11, 323 B.C." His empire would collapse, but his
legacy and influence continued, especially in Sogdiana. After his death Sogdiana and Bactria
‘would fll under the control ofa neily formed Hellenistic state called the Seleucid Empire
Which would continue the traditions of Alexander the Great? Between 250-225 B.C. though, a
Greek governor of Baca, by the name of Diodotus I and his son Diodotus Il would rebel and
<reate the Greco-Bactrian Kingdom.” The Greco-Bacteian kings would carry on the legacy of
‘Alexander the Great by mimicking his coinage, as a way of claiming that they were rightful
heirs to the throne. They believed they were the successors of a dynasty founded by Alexander
the Great. Amazingly, ths would carry on with the Greco-Bactrian Kingdom's suocessor the
Kushan Empire, The Kushan Empire would mimi Alexander the Great's coinage and use the


Page 32, Instance 1, Class: Text
° Holt, Into the Land of Bones: Alexander the Great in Afghanistan, 115.
° Holt, Into the Land of Bones: Alexander the Great in Afghanistan, 125.
° Holt, Into the Land of Bones: Alexander the Great in Afghanistan, 125-126.


Page 33, Instance 0, Class: Text
Greek language, until it was purposely changed in the second century A.D. by the Kushan king,
Kanishka the Great.

‘To understand this coinage connection fully, we must frst understand the coinage of
‘Alexander the Great. His coinage often featured Greek gods like Zeus and Herakles, as well
‘on hie ramen im Cirnek cm the calm % ‘Thia can he anem helou io Fiewre 2.


Page 33, Instance 1, Class: Text
Figure 2 Silver tetradrachma of Alexander the Great, 336 B.C. t0 323 B.C, Obverse of
“Herakles weating a lion skin” and reverse of Zeus holding an eagle with his right hand and a
scepter in his left hand, with “Alexander's” inscribed in Greek vertically down the ight side of
the coin

‘This type of coinage was not new to the Macedonians, because Macedonian royals in
fact claimed descent from Herakles.” Therefore, other Macedonian kings have used Herakles,
as well as Zeus on their coinage before Alexander did.®* Now the reason why Alexander had

™ Mairs, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology, Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, V8,

° Zoe Sophia Kontes, “The Dating ofthe Coinage of Alexander the Great,”
‘ups:fbrown.edu/Departments/loukowsky_Insitute/publications/papers/alexander_coina
sgefalexander hi

Zoe Sophia Kontes, “The Dating ofthe Coinage of Alexander the Great,”
-ups:forown.edu/Departments/Joukowsky_Institute/publcations/papers/alexander_coina
¢gelalexander hi

° Jerome Jordan Pollit. Artin the Hellenistic Age (Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1986), 25.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_33instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_33instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_33instance5.jpg]

Page 34, Instance 0, Class: Text
used these Greek gods was more than just eopying his predecessor, it was about what they
symbolized to him and about him. For example, as scholar Jerome Pollit state, “The hero
Herakles can be seen asa prototype for Alexander, a conquering hero and ancestor..who
brought glory to Greek culture, of which the hero himself was kind of an embodiment. Now
the symbolism of Zeus was used fora similar effect, but in a slightly different way. As Polit
describes “Zeus, as the father of Herakles, could be seen..not only as the ultimate ancestor of
the Macedonian line but also asthe arbiter and judge of heroic achievement." As one ean
determine the symbolism of these Greek heroes was extremely powerful for Alexander and
the placement of them on his coinage reflected Alexander's wishes to be a part ofthis ieonie
legacy. In fat, Alexander wanted tobe thought of asthe Herakles and the son of Zeus." Ibis
even said that Alexander not only depicted Herakles on his coinage, but might have depicted
himself as Herakles on his coinage too.!® Therefore, the deep ties Alexander felt to Herakles,
and Zeus cannot be understated

Another important coin of Alexander shows him wearing an elephant headdress on
some of the coinage of his general and future successor Ptolemy." The most prominent
‘example though, isthe “Mir Zakah” coin, which was minted by Alexander and featured
himself wearing an elephant headdress, because of his own conquest of India.

Polit, Art inthe Hellenistic Age, 2S

20" Pollitt, Artin the Hellenistic Age, 25.

201 Pollitt, Artin the Hellenistic Age, 26


Page 35, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Alexander the Great wearing an elephant headdress, with an aegis around his neck, ram horns
coming from his temple and the reverse features an elephant witha couple Greek letters.

‘Alexanders legacy and influence would then be continued on the coinage of the
Greco-Bactrian kings and even some Kushan kings from the Kushan Empire that would
succeed the Greco-Bactria Kingdom. While visiting the State Museum of History of
Uabekistan in Tashkent and the Afrasiab Museum in Samarkand, I was able to take pictures of
the coinage I saw from the Greco-Bactrian Kingdom. In Tashkent I saw seven gold coins and
in Samarkand I saw six silver coins. The kings represented on the coinage include Diodotus 1
(Died 235 B.C), Euthydemus I (226-186 B.C)", two of Demetrius 1 (186-170 BC)",

°°* Frank L. Holt, “Ptolemy"s Alexandrian Postscript,” Saudi Aramco World, Vol. 37, No.
6 (2006), 49.

*S¢ Homblower and Spaworth, The Oxford Classical Dictionary (3 rev. ed).

© Hornblower and Spaworth, The Oxford Classical Dictionary (3 rev. ed).

106 Hornblower and Spaworth, The Oxford Classical Dictionary (3 rev. ed.)


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Figure\page_35instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_35instance2.jpg]

Page 36, Instance 0, Class: Text
Antimacos I (185-170 B.C)", Agathokles (190-180 B.C.)"", two of Eucratides the Great
(170-145 B.C," and the Kushan king Vima Takto (80-110 A.D)!" then used the pictures,
tw identify the coins with numismatic resources onlin, because they were not labeled inthe
museums. Two of the gold coins I saw in Tashkent I was not abe to identify. Also, among the
pictures I will goin depth about, some were not of the highest quality. Therefore, ina couple
ceases, Thave used pictues from the internet of the same coins I saw inthe museum.

‘The fist coin comes from the Greco-Bactian king Diodotus I the first Greeo-Bacteian
ruler!" This is a gold coin of Diodotus I, Figure 4 features Diodotus I witha diadem on his head
‘on his head. The most famous characteristic of Alexander the Great was the “diadem” which ean
be seen referenced on coinage.'™ Alexander was well known for wearing a diadem, For
example, Plutarch and Atrian both mention a man being put to death by Alexander for wearing
his diadem."* Besides the diadem other clear connections to Alexander the Great include the
image of Zeus on the reverse of the coin, as wel a the Greek text!" Also, this coin was

°©% Carlos A. Picon and Sean Hemingway, eds. Pergamon and the Hellenistic Kingdoms
(of the Ancient World (New York: Metropolitan Museum of Art, 2016), 154

"Jason Neelis. Early Buddhist Transmission and Trade Networks: Mobility and

Exchange Within and Beyond the Northwestern Borderlands of South Asia (Dynamics in the
History of Religions) (Leiden: Brill, 2010), 102. -


Page 36, Instance 1, Class: Text
© Carlos A. Picon and Sean Hemingway. eds. Pergamon and the Hellenistic Kingdoms
(of the Ancient World (New York: Metropolitan Museum of Art, 2016), 154
"Jason Neelis. Early Buddhist Transmission and Trade Networks: Mobility and
Exchange Within and Beyond the Northwestern Borderlands of South Asia (Dynamics in the
History of Religions) (Leiden: Bil, 2010), 102
Hornblower and Spaworth, The Oxford Classical Dictionary (3 rev. ed).
"Ladislav Stanco. Greek Gods in the East: Hellenistic Iconographie Schemes in
Central Asia (Prague: Karolinum Press Charles University, 2013), 205,
"Holt, Into the Land of Bones: Alexander the Great in Afghanistan, 125-126,
"84 Andrew W. Collins, “The Royal Costume and Insignia of Alexander the
Great,” American Journal of Philology, Vol. 133, No. 3.2012), 377
Intps:fespace:library.uq edu au/view/U'Q:285127/UQ285127_OA pat
"Plutarch, The Age of Alexander, 330; Atrian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 387.
€7oe Sophia Kontes, “The Dating ofthe Coinage of Alexander the Great,”
Iups:forown.edu/DepartmentslJoukowsky_Institute/publication/papers/lexander_coina
‘eelalexander html.


Page 37, Instance 0, Class: Text
Figure 4. Gold Stater of Diodotus 1,255 B.C. to 235 B.C., Obverse of ‘Diodotus”
wearing diadem and reverse of Zeus walking nude with an aegis over left arm, while wielding a
thunder bolt. Also “King Antiochos 1” is inseribed in Greek."

“The next coin is of the Greco-Bactrian king Demetrius I Figure 5 shows the
following connections to Alexander the Great. His name was inscribed on the coinage just
like Alexander the Great did on his coinage. Secondly he features the Greek god Herakles
‘on the reverse of his coin, which as mentioned earlier was a god Alexander the Great
dearly admired." Lastly, on the obverse ofthe coin he is wearing an elephant headdress.
‘This represents his conquest of India." Iis also a feature that represents Alexander the
Great, whose famous campaign ended in India as seen earlier."

7 Holt, Into the Land of Bones: Alexander the Great in Afghanistan, 12.

8 Ben Baumann, “Gold Stater of Diodotus 1.” State Museum of History of
Usbekistan, Figure 3

8“Djodotos L” Wildwinds.com, April 16, 2017.

-ntpstvww.wildwinds com/coins/greece/baktriakingsidiodotos_Uthtml

#507 oe Sophia Kontes, “The Dating ofthe Coinage of Alexander the Great,”
-ups:forown.edu/Departmentlfoukowsky_Insitute/publicationspapers/alexander_coina
sgelalexander hi

=! William Woodthorpe Tarn, The Greeks in Bactria and India. (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 2010), 131

"= A.B Bosworth, Conquest and Empire: The Reign of Alexander the Great
(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1988), 180.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_37instance1.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_37instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Figure\page_37instance5.jpg]

Page 38, Instance 0, Class: Text
© Ben Baumann. “Gold Stater of Demetrius ” State Museum of History of
Usbekistan, Figure 5; “Demetrios.” Wildwinds.com, April 16,2017,
-ntp:/hvww wildwinds conn/coins/greecefbaktriakings/demettiost htm

© Arsian, The Campaigns of Alexander, 213.

5 Holt, Into the Land of Bones: Alexander the Great in Afghanistan, 128.


Page 38, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘wearing an elephant headdress and reverse of Herakles, with “King Demetrius 1” inscribed in
Greek."

“Then we have the coin of Greco-Bactian king Bueratides the Great. The coin in figure 6
shows the following conneetions to Alexander the Great. The coin shows Eucratides the Great
‘wearing Alexander the Greats signature diadem. The Greek gods known together as
Dioskouroi also received sacrifices from Alexander on oceasion.!™ Most importantly though,
Bucratides refers to himself as “the Great”, which isa direct reference tothe Greco-tadition."®


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_38instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_38instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Figure\page_38instance4.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_38instance6.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Figure\page_38instance7.jpg]

Page 39, Instance 0, Class: Text
Figure 6, Silver tetradrachma of Eucratides the Great, 171 B.C. to 145 B.C., Obverse of
“Eukratides” wearing a Boeotian helmet with a diadem and bull horns and reverse of Dioskouroi
‘charging on horseback each holding a palm branch and spear, with “King Eucratides the Great”
inscribed in Greek.!**

‘The last coin I will reference was that of the Kushan king Vima Takto. Also, itis
important to note that the coin I saw of Vima Takto was silver, while the one in figure 7 is
‘bronze. Both coins however, have the same design on them. As seen in figure 7, this coin also
thas various connections with Alexander the Great. First, on the obverse ofthe coin he is wearing
‘a diadem and secondly he takes the name “Soter Megas” on the back of his coin in Greek. This


Page 39, Instance 1, Class: Text
Figure 7. Bronze tetradrachma of Vima Takto , 80 A.D. to 100 A.D., Obverse of “Vima
‘Takto” with a diadem holding a scepter and the symbol of Vima Takto, The reverse shows Vima
"26-Bucratides L” Wildwinds.com, April 16,2017,
-tpswww.wildwinds convcoins/greece/baktriakingsleukratides_Vi.htal
Cribb, Joe. “The Soter Megas coins ofthe first and second Kushan kings, Kuju
Kadphises and Wima Takto." Gandharan Snudies, Vol. 8. 2018), 79-122.
Iups:www academia edu/5209190/The_Soter_Megas coins of_the_fist_and_second
_Kushan_kings_Kujula_Kadphises_and_Wima Takto


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_39instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_39instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_39instance5.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Form\page_40instance0.jpg]

Page 40, Instance 1, Class: Text
‘Out ofall the kings I could identity, which amounted to ten of the thieteen I viewed, all
hha references to Alexander the Great, Coins linked to the remaining Greco-Bactrian kings
8Soter Megas.” Wildwinds.com, April 16, 2017,
-ntpswww.wildwinds comveoins/greecefindo_scythians/soter_megas/t hl
"Baumann, Ben. “Coinage Summary.” Figure 8


Page 40, Instance 3, Class: Text
‘Takto riding a horse and holding a scepter, with “Ruling King the Great Savior” inseribed in
Greek, and the symbol of Vima Takto.!2*


Page 40, Instance 4, Class: Text
8Soter Megas.” Wildwinds.com, April 16, 2017,
-ntpswww.wildwinds comveoins/greecefindo_scythians/soter_megas/t hl
"Baumann, Ben. “Coinage Summary.” Figure 8


Page 41, Instance 0, Class: Text
reflect connections to Alexander the Great as well. They include a silver tetradrachma coin
associated with Euthydemus I, featuring the Greek god Herakles on the reverse, and the name
Euthydemus In Greek on the reverse. There is also a gold stater coin associated with
Antimachos I. which shows the Greek god Poseidon on the reverse side, to whom Alexander the
Great made sacrifices™ Also, he had his name in Greek on the reverse, Another gold state coin is
‘of Agathokles, depicting him wearing adiadem on the obverse side, The reverse includes Zeus and
the name Agathokles in Greek. The next coin of Agathokles, this one being a silver tetradrachma,
shows him wearing a diadem on the obverse. The reverse includes Zeus and the name Agathokles in
Greek again, Lally, we have another coin of Bucratides the Great, this one was a gold sater,
featuring the Greek gods known as Dioskouroi wearing diadems on obverse of the coin. On the
reverse it depicts Eucratides the Great and has his name in Greek. All ofthis coinage together
strongly reflects the enormity of Alexander the Greats legacy and influence in the region of
Sogdiana and Bactria. It not only reflects the desire of the kings to place themselves in
‘Alexanders iconographic and numismatic tradition, but the expectations of the people living
under these rulers. Therefore what is placed on the coinage also symbolizes what the local
populous expeets. Finally, this is more than just literary evidence; this is physical evidenee,
Which i less upto interpretation.

V. Other Evidence

Earlier I mentioned the building campaign Alexander the Great conducted in Sogdiana
‘and Baeitia, This resulted in many fortresses and settlements but these fortresses and settlements,


Page 42, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘had more than just a military impact. When Alexander the Great conquered the region, he also
Would create an influence that would last othe present day. Take the archaeological remains in
Bactria for example. Based on the excavations of the Kurganzol Fortress, the site had a Greek
foundation. Evidence of this comes from the fact that the Kurganzol Fortess” original
foundation included Hellenistic wooden columns at the entrance to the fortess, as mentioned
earlier Also found on the foundation level were a large variety of Hellenstie pottery." In
total the site underwent four different periods of habitation all showing Hellenistic influence."
During period one (4* century B.C. most likely 328 B.C.) a fortress was built probably by
‘Alexander the Great." During period two, (first half of 3% century B.C.) the internal structure
was built by the Seleucids." During period three, (second half of 3 century B.C.) the
Kurganzol Fortress losis fortfieations."” Lastly in period four, (frst half of the 2" century
B.C.) infrequent periods of habitation occurred.


Page 42, Instance 1, Class: Text
© Leonid Sverchkov. “The Kurganzol Fortress: (on the History of Central Asia in the
Hellenistic Era)” Ancient Civilizations from Seythia to Serbia, 14. 2008), 123,
-ntp/foooksandjournalsbrllonline.com/contentjournals/10.1163/092907708x339607.

2 Sverchkov, “The Kurganzol Fortress (onthe History of Central Asia inthe Hellenistic
Era),” 123.

Sverchkov, “The Kurganzol Fortress (onthe History of Central Asia inthe Hellenistic
Era)" 131

™€ Sverchkov, “The Kurganzol Fortress: (on the History of Central Asia in the Hellenistic
Era),” 185-188.

8 Sverchkov, “The Kurganzol Fortress: (on the History of Central Asia in the Hellenistic
Era),” 188.

'¢ Sverchkov, “The Kurganzol Fortress: (on the History of Central Asia in the Hellenistic
Era),” 188.

7 Sverchkov, “The Kurganzol Fortress (on the History of Central Asia inthe Hellenistic
Era),” 187.

8 Sverchkov, “The Kurganzol Fortress: (on the History of Central Asia in the Hellenistic


Page 43, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘The next site at Ai Khanoum, based on all the archaeology done thus far also shows lots
‘of Hellenistic influence." This includes a Greek architectural style featuring Corinthian
columns." Also, thee is a Greek gymnasium, which was used as a place for activites and
socializing, and a shrine of the Greek “Kineas."* The gymnasiums are especially important,
‘because they represent the lifestyle ofthe people and what they did whether that be athletes or
intellectual pursuits. An even more amazing find atthe ste includes Greek texts withthe names
‘of Greeks like Heliodorous, as well as names of Bactrians." Also found at the site are works of
Greek literature, which included philosophical and dramatic texts, and a Greek theatre."
Another interesting note, i that when it came to funerals, Greek inscriptions were most
‘commonly used." In fact, according to Rachel Mairs there is so much evidence of Greek
culture atthe site that Mairs believes Greek identity might have been common among the
people living there, whether they were native Greek or Bactrian.*

Kampyr-Tepe is significant hete, too. According to Getzel M. Cohen, the site definitely
hhas Greek influence, the question is how much? The amount archaeological work done atthe

© Mairs, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology, Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, 57

4 Mairs, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology, Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, 24

8 Mais, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology; Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, 63.

"© Mairs, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology, Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, 179-184: Mars, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology, Language, and Identity in
Greek Cenural Asia, 10.

Mais, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology; Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, 91.92: Mars, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology; Language, and Identity in
Greek Cenural Asia, 179-184.

“ Mairs, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology, Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, 183,

8 Mais, The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology; Language, and Identity in Greek
Central Asia, 186.


Page 44, Instance 0, Class: Text
site is limited, compared to Ai Khanoum. At the site though, they have found a Hellenistic
citadel, Greek graffiti, and around 300 Greco-Bactrian coins." As a result, Edward Rveladze
sees ita a possible Hellenistic settlement once upon a time."

[As for Sogdiana, besides all the coinage that was found in the region of Sogdiana, many
‘of which came from Marakanda, there are also artifacts and works of architecture as well. The
things I saw atthe Afrasiab Museum in Samarkand include Hellenistic pottery, a Hellenistic
flask, Hellenistic figurines, and the remnants of Hellenistic columns. These objects were not
labeled atthe museum, but were identified by a Hellenistic archaeologist named Jona Lendering
‘on the site livius.com, Together these artifacts and architecture represent a far amount of


Page 44, Instance 1, Class: Text
6 Getzel M Cohen, The Hellenistic Settlements in the East from Armenia and
Mesopotamia to Bactria and India (Betkeley: University of California Press, 2013), 277-
28.

" Getzel M Cohen, The Hellenistic Settlements in the East from Armenia and
Mesopotamia to Bactria and India (Betkeley: University of California Press, 2013), 277-
28.

8 Jona Lendering, “Maracanda,” Livius. hup:/iwww livius.org/articles/place/maracanda


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_44instance2.jpg]

Page 45, Instance 0, Class: Text
Altogether, an impressive amount of influence can be seen through th architecture and
atfacts uncovered at these fortesses and cite, which were colonized and founded by
‘Alexander. Thus, making it clear Alexander had significant legay’in Sogdiana and Baca

Vi. Modern Reception

‘The last source of evidence for Alexander the Great's influence and legacy in the region
is reflected inthe culture ofthe region, For example, A Russian scholar named NP. Ostroumov
leaveled to Tashkent inthe late 1800s and heard many fascinating stories about Alexander,
Which were believed by the locals. According to one story, Alexander found waters of eternal
youth with the help ofthe angel Raphael and then proceeded to use this water to grow trees in
“Tashkent. It was sad by the locals that these trees are sacred and stil exist today.


Page 45, Instance 2, Class: Text
8 Jona Lendeting. “Maracanda,” Liviu

-ntps/w ww lvius org/articlesplace/maracanda.
IN.P. Ostroumov, Iskander Zul -kamain. (Tashkent: Uzbekistan, 1896), 5-6.
81 Ostroumoy, Iskander Zu! -karnain, 5-6,


Page 46, Instance 0, Class: Text
Now in terms of my personal observations, I was not sure what I would see of
‘Alexander the Great inthe major museums. 1 did not know the sizeof the exits nor their
layout Strikingly in all the museums I visited, Alexander the Great was portrayed as an
immportant part of the preistory of Uzbekistan, The museum exhibits not only included various
related artifacts they also ineluded maps detailing his campaign routes and pictures of
‘Alexander, with descriptions of what he did inthe region

‘When I raveled to the cities of Samarkand, Bubkara, and Nuraa, all the guides stressed
te influence of Alexander the Great in ther cities. In Nurata heard some especially interesting
statements, The local tour guide told me thatthe loeal Nur Fortress was originally built by the
Sogdians and then Alexander came and added on othe fortess and founded the city of Nu as
wel, My tour guide made many laims about the purpose of the site and how it was
constructed. OF course when I did academie research on te site, I Found no new information
cortoborating any ofthese claims. This isnot to say it is all made up and untrue: there is just no
scholarly evidence at this point in ime, Archaeological excavation in Nurata has been minimal
todate

‘They then went on to tell me that there is tiny neighboring village called “Macedonia”
in honor of Alexander the Great. ln fact, inthe village, they even have a memorial for him and
his wife Roxane in the form of an honorific gravesite, There is also a local restaurant bearing the
town’s orginal name given by Alexander called “Nur Restaurant.” Another restaurant connected
to Alexander is in the Uzbek capital Tashkent, which is named “Iskander Shashlik” in honor of
‘Alexander. personally have been toa different restaurant in Tashkent that even bad a meal
named after Alexander called “The Alexander." Thinking about all of this it dawned on me that


Page 47, Instance 1, Class: Text
Figure 11. View of the left side of Nur Fortress, with back towards the eity of Nurata,
Usbekistan.!


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Figure\page_47instance3.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_47instance4.jpg]

Page 47, Instance 5, Class: Text
regardless of whether Alexander the Great founded this city or fortress, what is really telling
‘about Nuruta is just how much pride these people take in believing that Alexander the Great


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_48instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_48instance1.jpg]

Page 48, Instance 3, Class: Text
8° Ben Baumann. “Nur Fortress.” Figure 12.
4 Ben Baumann. “Nur Fortress.” Figure 13.


[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Image\page_49instance0.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Figure\page_49instance2.jpg]

[Image saved at: annie_extracted_data/Alexander_the_Great_in_Sogdiana/Figure\page_49instance3.jpg]

Page 50, Instance 0, Class: Text
MASENY: WREREVER EMAE COBVERSAHONS WHE MZbeks about Alexander the Creal, People
‘know about him and his campaigns i the region. Many also talked about the Greek influence he
‘brought tothe region. As noted above, this was without any prompting. These conversations
would come up casually and I would just listen, without anyone knowing Alexander the Great
was the reason I was in their country. In fact, Alexander the Great isso famous in Uzbekistan
that one ofthe “classic” Uahek twentieth-century novels is based on his Sogdian campaign. This
novel is called Sogdiana by Yavgat Hyasov. Ultimately, ts obvious through the vast amount of
cultural symbolism referencing Alexander and how people perceive him aeross the countey
today that he stil has substantial legacy in the region

VIL. Conclusion

In the end, an assessment of the evidence leads one to conclude that when Alexander the
Great led his army to Sogdiana, he not ony successfully conquered the region, but he
successfully planted Hellenistic influence, in turn ensbrining his legacy in the region. What
«enabled Alexander the Great to be so successful was a ruthlessly efficient military strategy,
supported by a blend of sheer eruelty and unexpected accommodation, as well asa rare degre of
situational and cultural awareness to navigate unforeseen obstacles, andthe construction of
fortifications throughout Sogdiana, These factors allowed Alexander to become the unquestioned
ruler of Sogdiana, Now, scholars Frank L. Holt and Michele Smith would object to this view,
based on a different interpretation of events and evidence. However, in my view. it is better not
to understand this campaign from a contemporary twentieth or even twenty-first century
mindset. In order to do this campaign justice we must examine it based on the era in which i
‘occurred and in light of Alexander's own goal. Alexander sought conquest, and used diplomacy
‘only tothe extent that it advanced his main purpose. He was frst and foremost a soldier and


Page 51, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘conqueror. The army was the mechanism by which to accomplish his goal, Also, claims that
‘Alexander had no real lasting influence in Sogdiana ae false. The coinage and local views in
Uzbekistan regarding Alexander ate proof that his influence was Felt and stil is felt to the
present day. By no means was the Sogdian campaign painless or flawless, but it was successful
‘enough that after his death, Alexander the Great's legacy would not fade. If you travel
throughout the country of Uzbekistan today, one can see the numerous cultural references to
‘Alexander the Great. Alexander, a Macedonian who died over 2.000 yeats ago, i still honored
and remembered in the country of Uzbekistan in Central Asia. That isthe definition of influence
and legacy.

Finally, the biggest flaw of scholarly research on Alexander's Sogdian campaign isthe
fact tha often scholars have not paid enough atenton to it and the research done on the
campaign is often too focused one typeof evidence, making the analysis of the campaign one
dimensional. You cannot fully understand the history of an event and make accurate conclusions
bout it without using all resources available to make sense of i. Tis is why my research is
based on an eclectic mix of resources, including archaeology, literature, and the modern
perceptions of those currently inhabiting the land formerly known as Sogdiana, Together these
different areas of research bring a much fuller picture of Alexander's Sogdian campaign to light


Page 52, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘AJ. Dani and P. Bemnatd, “Alexander and His Successors in Centeal Asia,” History of
Civilizations of Central Asia, Vol. Il: The Development of Sedentary and Nomadic
Civilizations: 700 B.C. o A.D. 250. Janos Harmatta ed. Paris: Unesco Publishing,
1994,

Antela-Bernandez, Borja. “World is not enough (Alexander the Great in Sogdiana: A study
in historiography).” In Central Asian in Antiquity: Interdisciplinary Approaches.

BAR International Series 2665 edited by Borja Antela-Bernandez and Jordi Vidal
‘Oxford: Archaeopress, (2014), 77-84

Iutps:/www academia edu/2437963/World_is_not_enough_Alexander_the_Greats_
‘campaigns_against_the_guerillas_in_Sogdiana

Bosworth, A.B. “Introduction: Some Basie Principles.” in Alexander the Great: A Reader
edited by Ian Worthington. London and New York: Routledge, 2012.

Bosworth, A.B. Conquest and Empire: The Reign of Alexander the Great. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1988,

Cohen, Getzel M. The Hellenistic Settlements in the East from Armenia and Mesopotamia to
Bactria and India. Berkeley: University of California Press, 2013.

Hoot, Frank L. Alexander the Great and Bactvia. Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1993,

Holt, Frank L. Ino the Land of Bones: Alexander the Great in Afghanistan. Berkeley and Los
‘Angeles: University of California Press, 2006.

Holt, Frank L. Lost World of the Golden King: In Search of Ancient Afghanistan. Berkeley and
Los Angeles: University of California Press, 2012.

Holt, Frank L. “Ptolemy's Alexandrian Postscript,” Saudi Arameo World, Vol. 57, No. 6 (2006),
49,
|hupi//archive.atumeoworld.com/issue/200606/ptolemy.s.alexandrian.postseript.htm.

Homblower, Simon, and Antony Spaworth, eds. The Oxford Classical Dictionary (3 rev. ed.)
‘Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2005,
-hups/ivww.oxfordreference.com.ezproxy:csbsju.edulview/10.109¥/acref19780198606413,
(001.000 lactef-9780198606413-c-279eskey=EKTQEg&eresult=280.

Lonsdale, David J. Alexander the Great: Lessons in Strategy. London and New York: Routledge,
2007,

Neelis, Jason. Early Buadihist Transmission and Trade Networks: Mobility and Exchange Within
‘and Beyond the Northwestern Borderlands of South Asia (Dynamics in the History of
Religions). Leiden: Brill, 2010.


Page 53, Instance 0, Class: Text
Picon, Carlos A. and Sean Hemingway, eds. Pergamon and the Hellenistic Kingdoms of the
“Ancient World. New York: Metropolitan Museum of Art, 2016.

Rawlinson, H. G. Bactria: The History of the Forgotten Empire. London: Probsthain &

CO, 1912.

Romey, Kristin M. “The Forgotten Realm,” Archaeology Magazine, Vol. 57, No. 6. (2004).
‘utp //archive.atchaeology.org/04I L/abstrats/alexander html

Riveladze, Edward. Alexander of Macedon in Bactria and Sogdiana: Historical-Geographical

Observations. Translated from Russian by R. Baumann, Tashkent: Academy of Fine Arts of

the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2002,

‘Sagdullaev, Anatoli, The Campaign of Alexander the Great in Sogdiana. Translated from
Russian by R. Baumann, Tashkent: Uzbekistan, 2008.

Smith, Michele, “The Failure of Alexander's Conquest and Administration of Bactria-
Sogdiana,” Hirundo, the McGill Journal of Classical Studies 8. Montreal: McGill
University, (2009), 64-72. hups:/lwww.mcyill.cfelassiewflesfelassies/2009-10-
06,pd.

‘Stanco, Ladislav. Greek Gods in the East: Hellenistic Iconographic Schemes in Central Asia.

Prague: Karolinum Press Charles University, 2013,
‘Tam, William Woodlthorpe. The Greeks in Bactria and India. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 2010.

Worthington, Ian, ed, Alexander the Great: A Reader. London and New York: Routledge, 2012.

Primary Sources

“Ancient Coinage of Baktri, Kings, Agathokles.” Wildwvinds.com, April 16, 2017,
utp://ww.wildwinds.com/coins/ereece/baktriakings/agathokles/ hi

“Antimachos 1.” Wildwinds.com, April 16, 2017,
‘utp://www.wildwinds.com/coins/greece/baktriakings/antimachos_V.ht

Arian, The Campaigns of Alexander. .R. Hamilton ed, Aubrey De Selincourt tans. New

York: Penguin Books, 1971
Baumann, Ben, “Coinage Summary.” Figure 7.
Baumann, Ben. “Gold Stater of Diodotus I.” State Museum of History of Uzbekistan,


Page 54, Instance 0, Class: Text
Baumann, Ben, “Gold Stater of Demetrius 1” State Museum of History of Uzbekistan,
Figure 4

Baumann, Ben, “Nur Fortress.” Figure 10-14.

Collins, Andrew W. “The Royal Costume and Insignia of Alexander the Great,”
‘American Journal of Philology. Vol. 133, No. 3. 2012), 371-402.
Inups:Fespace.library.ug.edu aulview/UQ:285127/UQ285127_OA pa

Cribb, Joe. “The Soter Megas coins ofthe first and second Kushan kings, Kuju Kadphises and

Wima Takto,” Gandharan Studies, Vol. 8. (2015), 79-122.
-hupscfiww.academia.edu/15209190/The_Soter_ Megas coins_of the first and_second
“Kushan kings. Kujula_Kadphises_ and Wima Takto,

“Demetrios.” Wildwinds.com, April 16,2017,
-utp//ww.wildwinds.com/coins/greece/baktriakings/demetrios/t html

“Diodotos 1” Wildwinds.com, April 16, 2017,
utp: /www.wildwinds.conm/coins/ereece/baktriakings/diodotos_Utchtm

““Bucratides 1” Wildwinds.com, April 16, 2017,
|hup//ww.wildwinds.comcoins/greece/baktria/kingsleukratides_1i.html

“Euthydemos 1” Wildwinds.com, April 16, 2017,
‘utp://www.wildwinds.com/coins/greeceTbaktriakings/euthydemos_U.html

Ferreras, V. Martinez, JM. Gurt Esparraguera, S. Pidaev, Edward Reveladze, and S. B. Bolelov.
“Tableware in the Hellenistic Tradition from the City of Kampye Tepe in Ancient
Bactria (Uzbekistan),” Archacomerty, Vol. 58, 5. (2016), 736-764.
‘utp/fonlinelibrary.wiley.com/woll/doi/10.111 arem. 12199/absteact

Kontes, Zoe Sophia “The Dating of the Coinage of Alexander the Great.”
‘hupsfforown.edwDepartments/Joukowsky_Insttute/publications/paperslalexander_coina
_gefalexander ht

Lendering, Jona. “Maracanda.” Livius April 16, 2017,
‘itp://www.livius.org/aticles/place/maracandal

Mais, Rachel. The Hellenistic Far East: Archaeology. Language, and Identity in Greek Central
Asia. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 2014.

Mais, Rachel. “The Founder Shrine and the ‘Foundation’ of Ai Khanourn,” fn Foundation
Myths in Dialogue: Discourses about Origins in Ancient Studies, Edited by Navise
Mac Sweeney. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2014

Naweed, Hamid. Art Through the Ages in Afghanistan. Bloomington: Authorhouse, 2013.


Page 55, Instance 0, Class: Text
‘Nikonorov, Valeri P.“A Unique Comb from Kampyr-Tepe (Northern Bactria),” Cimmerians
Seythians Sarmartians, Edited by Jan Chochorowski. Krakow: Jagiellonian University
Institute of Archaeology, 2004

Ostroumov, N.P. Iskander Zul -karnain. Tashkent: Uzbekistan, 1896.

Pollitt, Jerome Jordan. Art in the Hellenistic Age. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1986,

Plutarch. The Age of Alevander. Ian Scott-Kilvert and Timothy E. Duff trans. London:

Penguin Classies, 2012.

Rufus, Quintus Curtus. The History of Alexander. John Yardley tans. New York
Penguin Books, 1984,

Siculus, Diodorus. The Complete Works of Diodorus Siculus. CM. Oldfather, C-L. Sherman, C.
Bradford Welles, Russel M. Greer, FR, Walton, and G. Booth tans. Hastings: Delphi
Classies, 2014.

“Soter Megas.” Wildwinds.com, April 16, 2017,
‘utp://www.wildwinds.conveoins/reecefindo_scythians/soter_megas/t.hl

Sverchkov, Leonid. “The Kurganzol Fortress: (on the History of Central Asia in the Hellenistic
Era),” Ancient Civilizations from Seythia to Serbia, 14. (2008), 123-191
-htp://booksandjournas.brllonline.com/content/jousnals/10,1163/092907708x339607,


